AA(1)                        General Commands Manual                       AA(1)



NAME
       aa - Manipulate Apple Archives

SYNOPSIS
       aa command [options]

DESCRIPTION
       aa creates and manipulates Apple Archives

COMMANDS
       archive           Archive the contents of the target directory

       append            Archive the contents of the target directory, append to
       an existing archive file

       extract           Extract the contents of an archive to the target
       directory

       list              List the contents of an archive

       convert           Convert an archive into another archive

       manifest          Alias for 'archive -manifest'

       verify            Compare the contents of the target directory with a
       manifest

       check-and-fix     Verify and fix the contents of the target directory
       using an error correcting manifest

OPTIONS
       -v     Increase verbosity. Default is silent operation.

       -h     Print usage and exit.

       -d dir Target directory for archive/extract. Default is the current
              directory.

       -i input_file
              Input file. Default is stdin.

       -o output_file
              Output file. Default is stdout.

       -subdir subdir
              Path to archive under dir. subdir will be included in the archived
              paths, and extracted. Default is empty.

       -D dir_and_subdir
              Set both dir to `dirname dir_and_subdir` and subdir to `basename
              dir_and_subdir`.

       -x     Do not cross volume boundaries when archiving.

       -p     Generate destination path automatically based on source path. For
              example 'aa archive -d foo -p' becomes 'aa archive -d foo -o
              foo.aar'.

       -a algorithm
              Compression algorithm used when creating archives. One of lzfse,
              lzma, lz4, zlib, raw. Default is lzfse.

       -b block_size
              Block size used when compressing archives, a number with optional
              b, k, m, g suffix (bytes are assumed if no suffix is specified).
              Default is 4m for archive and 1m for the other commands.

       -t worker_threads
              Number of worker threads compressing/decompressing data. Default
              is the number of physical CPU on the running machine.

       -wt writer_threads
              Number of writer threads extracting archive content. Default is to
              match worker_threads.

       -enable-dedup (-no-enable-dedup)
              If set, and SLC fields are present in the archive, files with same
              data will be extracted as clones

       -enable-holes (-no-enable-holes)
              If set, and the filesystem supports it, detect and create holes in
              files to store 0-filled segments

       -ignore-eperm (-no-ignore-eperm)
              If set, ignore EPERM (operation not permitted) errors when setting
              files attributes

       -manifest
              Alias for the following options:
              -exclude-field dat
              -include-field sh2,siz,idx,idz
              -a lzfse -b 1m

       -imanifest input_manifest_file
              Manifest matching the input archive.  Can be used in conjonction
              with the entry selection options to accelerate processing

       -omanifest output_manifest_file
              Receives a manifest of the output archive

       -list-format format
              Output format for the list command, one of text, json. Default is
              text


ENTRY SELECTION OPTIONS
       -include-path and -include-path-list options are applied first to select
       an initial set of entries, then -exclude-path, -exclude-path-list,
       -exclude-name, -exclude-regex are applied to remove entries from this
       set.  If no -include-path or -include-path-list option is given, all
       entries are included in the initial set.  If a directory is
       included/excluded, the entire sub-tree is included/excluded.

       -include-path path
              Include entry paths having path as a prefix. This option can be
              given multiple times.

       -exclude-path path
              Exclude entry paths having path as a prefix. This option can be
              given multiple times.

       -include-path-list path_list_file
              File containing a list of paths to include, one entry per line.
              This option can be given multiple times.

       -exclude-path-list path_list_file
              File containing a list of paths to exclude, one entry per line.
              This option can be given multiple times.

       -include-regex expr
              Include entry paths matching regular expression expr, see
              re_format(7). This option can be given multiple times.

       -exclude-regex expr
              Exclude entry paths matching regular expression expr, see
              re_format(7). This option can be given multiple times.

       -exclude-name name
              Exclude entry paths where a single component of the path matches
              exactly name. This option can be given multiple times.

       -include-type <type_spec>
              Include only entries matching the given types. <type_spec> is a
              word containing one or more of the entry type characters listed
              below.

       -exclude-type <type_spec>
              Include only entries not matching the given types. <type_spec> is
              a word containing one or more of the entry type characters listed
              below.

       -include-field <field_spec>
              Add the given fields to the set of field keys. This option can be
              given multiple times. <field_spec> is a comma separated list of
              entry field keys listed below.

       -exclude-field <field_spec>
              Remove the given fields from the set of field keys. This option
              can be given multiple times. <field_spec> is a comma separated
              list of entry field keys listed below.


ENCRYPTION OPTIONS
       When archiving, encryption is selected by one of the -password...,
       -key..., or -recipient-pub options.  The archive will be signed if a
       private key is specified with -sign-priv.  With the currently available
       profiles, public/private keys are on the Elliptic Curve P-256, and
       symmetric keys are 256-bit long.

       -keychain
              Use Keychain to load/store symmetric keys and passwords

       -password file
              File containing encryption password. When encrypting, and if
              -password-gen is passed, receives the generated password.  Can be
              - to print the password to standard output.

       -password-value password
              Password.

       -password-gen
              When encrypting, generate a new random password.  It is
              recommended to always use this option, in conjonction with
              -keychain to store the password in the Keychain, or -password to
              store the password in a file or print it.

       -key file
              File containing encryption symmetric key. When encrypting, and if
              -key-gen is passed, receives the generated key.

       -key-value key
              Symmetric key, either "hex:<64 hex digits>" or "base64:<32 bytes
              encoded using base64>".

       -key-gen
              When encrypting, generate a new random symmetric key.

       -recipient-pub file
              Recipient public key for encryption.  The corresponding private
              key is required to decrypt the archive.

       -recipient-priv file
              Recipient private key for decryption.  The archive must have been
              encrypted against the corresponding public key.

       -sign-pub file
              Signing public key for decryption.  The archive must have been
              signed with the corresponding private key.

       -sign-priv file
              Signing private key for encryption.  The corresponding public key
              is required to decrypt and authenticate the archive.


ENTRY TYPES
       b block special
       c character special
       d directory
       f regular file
       l symbolic link
       m metadata
       p fifo
       s socket


ENTRY FIELDS
       typ entry type
       pat path
       lnk link path
       dev device id
       uid user id
       gid group id
       mod access permissions
       flg flags
       mtm modification time
       ctm creation time
       btm backup time
       xat extended attributes
       acl access control list
       cks CRC32 checksum
       sh1 SHA1 digest
       sh2 SHA2-256 digest
       dat file contents
       siz file size
       duz disk usage
       idx entry index in main archive
       yec file data error correcting codes
       yaf Apple Archive fields (in metadata entry)
       all alias for all fields (exclude only)
       attr alias for uid,gid,mod,flg,mtm,btm,ctm


EXAMPLES
       Archive the contents of directory foo into archive foo.aar, using LZMA
       compression with 8 MB blocks

              aa archive -d foo -o foo.aar -a lzma -b 8m

       Extract the contents of foo.aar in directory dst

              aa extract -d dst -i foo.aar

       Create a manifest of the contents of directory foo into foo.manifest,
       using LZFSE compression with 1 MB blocks

              aa manifest -d foo -o foo.manifest -a lzfse -b 1m

       Verify the contents of dst match the manifest foo.manifest

              aa verify -i foo.manifest -d dst -v

       Print all entry paths in foo.manifest

              aa list -i foo.manifest

       Print all entry paths, uid, gid for regular files in foo.manifest

              aa list -v -i foo.manifest -include-type f -exclude-field all
              -include-field uid,gid,pat

       Create a manifest of the contents of archive foo.aar in foo.manifest

              aa convert -manifest -v -i foo.aar -o foo.manifest

       Extract a subset of entries matching prefix Applications/Mail.app from
       archive foo.aar in directory dst

              aa extract -i foo.aar -include-path Applications/Mail.app -d dst

       Archive and encrypt directory foo to archive foo.aea, generating a random
       password and storing it in the Keychain

              aa archive -d foo -o foo.aea -keychain -password-gen

       Decrypt and extract archive foo.aea to directory dst, obtaining the
       password from the Keychain (requires local authentication)

              aa extract -o foo.aea -d dst -keychain

       Archive directory foo to archive foo.aar

              aa archive -p -d foo

       Extract archive foo.aar to directory foo

              aa extract -p -i foo.aar



