CRYPTEXCTL-DEVICE(1)         General Commands Manual        CRYPTEXCTL-DEVICE(1)

NAME
     cryptexctl device – manage connections to devices running the cryptex
     subsytem

SYNOPSIS
     cryptexctl device device ACTION

DESCRIPTION
     Perform actions on a connected device. This subcommand will, when
     appropriate, trigger the pairing dialog on the connected device.

OPTIONS
     A list of actions which may be performed:

     print    Print information about a connected device. This includes
              information about the device name, UDID and various device
              identifiers used for personalization (see cryptexctl-create(1)).

     pair     Initiate pairing cryptexctl on this machine with a device. This
              will trigger a pairing dialog on the device which must be accepted
              before other cryptex operations, such as installation, may be
              performed.

              The pair action will return immediately if the device has already
              been paired.

     unpair   Remove the pairing between this machine and a device. Performing
              future cryptex operations will require the device be paired again.

     list     List devices on which cryptexctl may be able to operate. These
              devices may be connected via a physical cable or over the network
              if remote lockdown is enabled. This is one way to retrieve the
              device UDID, which is required to select the device on which to
              operate when using other commands.

ENVIRONMENT
     CRYPTEXCTL_UDID
                   Read by cryptexctl device to set the --udid option on the
                   base cryptexctl(1) command. This UDID value can be retrieved
                   from the list or print actions and provides a convenient way
                   to operate on a single device when multiple devices are
                   connected.

                   The magic value "first" will select the first discovered
                   device.  Note that this will select the first device detected
                   over the lockdown protocol. This may include wireless devices
                   and the ordering is not guaranteed. It is usually best to use
                   a specific UDID.

SEE ALSO
     cryptexctl(1), cryptexctl-create(1)

HISTORY
     Introduced in macOS 11.0

