CRYPTEXCTL-INSTALL(1)        General Commands Manual       CRYPTEXCTL-INSTALL(1)

NAME
     cryptexctl install – install a cryptex, either to the host or to a target
     device

SYNOPSIS
     cryptexctl install --variant VARIANT [-p | --print-info] CRYPTEX-DIRECTORY

DESCRIPTION
     Install a cryptex, either to the host (if the host has a cryptex management
     daemon) or to a target device specified in the top level cryptexctl(1)
     command.

OPTIONS
     A list of options with descriptions:

     Required:

     -V | --variant VARIANT
              The name of the cryptex

     CRYPTEX-DIRECTORY
              The path to the cryptex bundle directory. The cryptex bundle
              directory is the product of the cryptexctl-personalize(1)
              subcommand and is expected to contain a personalized Image4
              manifest.

     Optional:

     [-p | --print-info]
              Print information about the cryptex that was installed.

ENVIRONMENT
     CRYPTEXCTL_UDID  Read by the base cryptexctl(1) command to select the
                      device on which to operate when the --udid option is not
                      specified and there is no cryptexd(8) daemon on the host.
                      See cryptexctl(1) for more information about
                      CRYPTEXCTL_UDID.

TROUBLESHOOTING
     If an installation is failing you may wish to enable verbose logging. The
     following will enable the most verbose logging from cryptexctl install:

           % cryptexctl -v9 -d9 -ldt install -V CryptexHTTP --print-info
           ./com.example.cryptex.cxbd.signed

     You may also want to see logging from the services involved in the cryptex
     subsytem, the cryptexctl-log(1) command is a quick way to get more
     information about a failing installation.

           % cryptexctl log stream

     In more extreme cases you might need to collect logging from the device.
     If you have the CRYPTEXCTL_UDID environment variable set, you should use
     "sudo -E" to pass the environment variable through to cryptexctl install.
     Otherwise you must specify the --udid option to cryptexctl install.

           % sudo -E cryptexctl log collect
           % cryptexctl log show -- --archive ./system_logs.logarchive

     For more information about logging, see cryptexctl-log(1) and log(1).

SEE ALSO
     cryptexctl(1), cryptexctl-create(1), cryptexctl-personalize(1),
     cryptexctl-log(1), cryptexctl-uninstall(1), log(1)

HISTORY
     Introduced in macOS 11.0

