CRYPTEXCTL-GENERATE-TRUST-CACHE(1)                       General Commands Manual

NAME
     cryptexctl generate-trust-cache – Generate a trust cache from a directory
     of Mach-O files

SYNOPSIS
     cryptexctl generate-trust-cache [-o | --output-file OUTPUT-FILE]
                [-t | --type ⟨static|loadable|development⟩]
                [-b | --base-trust-cache TRUST-CACHE-PATH] DIRECTORY-PATH

DESCRIPTION
     Generate a trust cache from the mach object files (see Mach-O(5)) in the
     directory hierarchy given by DIRECTORY-PATH.  Each mach object, regardles
     of whether it is an executable, bundle, dylib, or dylib shared cache, is
     inspected for a valid code directory.  If found, the code directory is
     hashed, and the resulting hash is added to the trust cache.  If the mach
     object has no code signature, it is impossible to add it to the trust
     cache, and it is ignored.

     If a fat mach file is encountered, each slice is examined with the above
     logic.

     The implementation expects well-formed mach objects, whose load command
     counts are accurate, and will not attempt to work around poorly-formed
     inputs just for the sake of a single user's tooling.

OPTIONS
     A list of flags and their descriptions:

     -o | --output-file OUTPUT-FILE
              The file to which the trust cache should be written, will be
              replaced if it already exists [default: a file named trustcache in
              the current working direcory.]

     -t | --type ⟨static|loadable|development⟩
              The type of trust cache to produce. Valid types are:

              static - a static trust cache, of which there may only be one on a
              given device.  This option is generally not useful, but is
              included for completeness.

              loadable - a trust cache which may be loaded at runtime and
              persisted on the device

              development - a trust cache which may only be loaded on devices
              with development fusing while running a DEVELOPMENT iBoot

              [default: loadable]

     -b | --base-trust-cache TRUST-CACHE-PATH
              The path to an existing trust cache of any type whose cdhashes
              should be incorporated into the one being generated. This flag may
              be specified multiple times.

SEE ALSO
     codesign(1) cryptexctl(1) cryptexctl-create(1)
     cryptexctl-dump-trust-cache(1) trustcachectl(1) Mach-O(5)

HISTORY
     Introduced in macOS 11.0

