CRYPTEXCTL-NONCE(1)          General Commands Manual         CRYPTEXCTL-NONCE(1)

NAME
     cryptexctl nonce – retrieve or manipulate cryptex personalization nonces

SYNOPSIS
     cryptexctl nonce nonce [-r | --roll] [-g | --global] CRYPTEX-NAME

DESCRIPTION
     Retrieve or manipulate personalization nonces for cryptexes. In the current
     implementation, all cryptexes are personalized with a single nonce which is
     rolled when the host performs a software update. In the future, each
     cryptex will have an individual nonce.

     This nonce can be used with cryptexctl-create(1) to personalize a cryptex
     for a device when the device is not present.

OPTIONS
     A list of options with descriptions:

     [-r | --roll]
             Roll the cryptex's personalization nonce. This will invalidate the
             existing personalization for the cryptex such it will not be
             accepted at the next validation (usually at the next boot). This is
             not a live revocation and does not affect the state of the already-
             active cryptex. Once rolled, a new nonce is generated at the next
             boot, and thus the cryptex nonce will not be queryable until then.

     [-g | --global]
             Operate on the global cryptex nonce. Currently, all cryptexes are
             personalized with this nonce, but in the future, each will have its
             own nonce.

     CRYPTEX-NAME
             The cryptex whose nonce is to be manipulated. Currently, all
             cryptexes are personalized with the same nonce, but in the future,
             each will have its own nonce. This option must be provided if the
             --global option is not given.

ENVIRONMENT
     CRYPTEXCTL_UDID
                   Read by cryptexctl nonce to set the [--udid] option on the
                   base cryptexctl(1) command. This UDID value can be retrieved
                   from the cryptexctl-device(1) command's list or print actions
                   and provides a convenient way to operate on a single device
                   when multiple devices are connected.

                   The magic value "first" will select the first discovered
                   device.

TROUBLESHOOTING
     This command will communicate with the local cryptex subsystem if [-udid]
     or CRYPTEXTCTL_UDID is not specified. When manually personalizing a cryptex
     with cryptexctl-create(1) ensure you are communicating with the device you
     expect by confirming the UDID matches with the output from
     cryptexctl-device(1).

SEE ALSO
     cryptexctl(1), cryptexctl-create(1), cryptexctl-list(1)

HISTORY
     Introduced in macOS 11.0

