cups(1)                            Apple Inc.                            cups(1)



NAME
       cups - a standards-based, open source printing system

DESCRIPTION
       CUPS is the software you use to print from applications like word
       processors, email readers, photo editors, and web browsers. It converts
       the page descriptions produced by your application (put a paragraph here,
       draw a line there, and so forth) into something your printer can
       understand and then sends the information to the printer for printing.

       Now, since every printer manufacturer does things differently, printing
       can be very complicated.  CUPS does its best to hide this from you and
       your application so that you can concentrate on printing and less on how
       to print. Generally, the only time you need to know anything about your
       printer is when you use it for the first time, and even then CUPS can
       often figure things out on its own.

   HOW DOES IT WORK?
       The first time you print to a printer, CUPS creates a queue to keep track
       of the current status of the printer (everything OK, out of paper, etc.)
       and any pages you have printed. Most of the time the queue points to a
       printer connected directly to your computer via a USB port, however it
       can also point to a printer on your network, a printer on the Internet,
       or multiple printers depending on the configuration. Regardless of where
       the queue points, it will look like any other printer to you and your
       applications.

       Every time you print something, CUPS creates a job which contains the
       queue you are sending the print to, the name of the document you are
       printing, and the page descriptions. Job are numbered (queue-1, queue-2,
       and so forth) so you can monitor the job as it is printed or cancel it if
       you see a mistake. When CUPS gets a job for printing, it determines the
       best programs (filters, printer drivers, port monitors, and backends) to
       convert the pages into a printable format and then runs them to actually
       print the job.

       When the print job is completely printed, CUPS removes the job from the
       queue and moves on to any other jobs you have submitted. You can also be
       notified when the job is finished, or if there are any errors during
       printing, in several different ways.

   WHERE DO I BEGIN?
       The easiest way to start is by using the web interface to configure your
       printer. Go to "http://localhost:631" and choose the Administration tab
       at the top of the page. Click/press on the Add Printer button and follow
       the prompts.

       When you are asked for a username and password, enter your login username
       and password or the "root" username and password.

       After the printer is added you will be asked to set the default printer
       options (paper size, output mode, etc.) for the printer. Make any changes
       as needed and then click/press on the Set Default Options button to save
       them. Some printers also support auto-configuration - click/press on the
       Query Printer for Default Options button to update the options
       automatically.

       Once you have added the printer, you can print to it from any
       application. You can also choose Print Test Page from the maintenance
       menu to print a simple test page and verify that everything is working
       properly.

       You can also use the lpadmin(8) and lpinfo(8) commands to add printers to
       CUPS.  Additionally, your operating system may include graphical user
       interfaces or automatically create printer queues when you connect a
       printer to your computer.

   HOW DO I GET HELP?
       The CUPS web site (http://www.CUPS.org) provides access to the cups and
       cups-devel mailing lists, additional documentation and resources, and a
       bug report database. Most vendors also provide online discussion forums
       to ask printing questions for your operating system of choice.

ENVIRONMENT
       CUPS commands use the following environment variables to override the
       default locations of files and so forth. For security reasons, these
       environment variables are ignored for setuid programs:

       CUPS_ANYROOT
            Whether to allow any X.509 certificate root (Y or N).

       CUPS_CACHEDIR
            The directory where semi-persistent cache files can be found.

       CUPS_DATADIR
            The directory where data files can be found.

       CUPS_ENCRYPTION
            The default level of encryption (Always, IfRequested, Never,
            Required).

       CUPS_EXPIREDCERTS
            Whether to allow expired X.509 certificates (Y or N).

       CUPS_GSSSERVICENAME
            The Kerberos service name used for authentication.

       CUPS_SERVER
            The hostname/IP address and port number of the CUPS scheduler
            (hostname:port or ipaddress:port).

       CUPS_SERVERBIN
            The directory where server helper programs, filters, backend, etc.
            can be found.

       CUPS_SERVERROOT
            The root directory of the server.

       CUPS_STATEDIR
            The directory where state files can be found.

       CUPS_USER
            Specifies the name of the user for print requests.

       HOME Specifies the home directory of the current user.

       IPP_PORT
            Specifies the default port number for IPP requests.

       LOCALEDIR
            Specifies the location of localization files.

       LPDEST
            Specifies the default print queue (System V standard).

       PRINTER
            Specifies the default print queue (Berkeley standard).

       TMPDIR
            Specifies the location of temporary files.

FILES
       ~/.cups/client.conf
       ~/.cups/lpoptions

CONFORMING TO
       CUPS conforms to the Internet Printing Protocol version 2.1 and
       implements the Berkeley and System V UNIX print commands.

NOTES
       CUPS printer drivers, backends, and PPD files are deprecated and will no
       longer be supported in a future feature release of CUPS.  Printers that
       do not support IPP can be supported using applications such as
       ippeveprinter(1).

SEE ALSO
       cancel(1), client.conf(7), cupsctl(8), cupsd(8), lp(1), lpadmin(8),
       lpinfo(8), lpoptions(1), lpr(1), lprm(1), lpq(1), lpstat(1), CUPS Online
       Help (http://localhost:631/help), CUPS Web Site (http://www.CUPS.org),
       PWG Internet Printing Protocol Workgroup (http://www.pwg.org/ipp)

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.



