CVAFFINITY(1)                General Commands Manual               CVAFFINITY(1)



NAME
       cvaffinity - set, get, or delete the affinity of a file or directory

SYNOPSIS
       cvaffinity -s_key filename

       cvaffinity -l filename

       cvaffinity -d filename

DESCRIPTION
       cvaffinity can be used to set an affinity for a specific storage pool on
       a file or directory, or list the current affinity.  An affinity is
       created in a storage pool through the volume configuration, see
       snfs_config(5).  It is a name, up to eight (8) characters, describing a
       special media type. Use cvadmin(8) to see what affinity sets are assigned
       to the configured storage pools.

       If the affinity does not exist on any of the storage pools, a set will
       fail.  When allocating space for a file with an affinity, if the affinity
       does not exist for any of the storage pools, or if the storage pools with
       the affinity cannot be used to satisfy an allocation request, then the
       allocation will occur on the non-exclusive storage pools.  If there is no
       non-exclusive storage pools, an ENOSPC is returned.  See also
       AffinityPreference in snfs_config(5).

       If a file does not have an affinity, it cannot have space allocated to it
       on storage pools that have any affinities and are configured to be
       exclusive.

       A common way to use the affinity capability, is to create a directory
       with cvmkdir(1) and have all files and directories below that directory
       inherit the affinity.  Also, files can be created and have space pre-
       allocated with an affinity using cvmkfile(1).

       For automatic affinity mapping for certain files, see autoAffinity and
       autoAffinities in snfs_config(5) and snfs.cfgx(5).

OPTIONS
       -s key Set the given key to be the Affinity Key of the given file or
              directory.  This key must be configured as an Affinity in the
              storage pool section of the file system configuration. Use
              cvadmin(8) to see the affinities in this file system.  For files
              with an Affinity, new blocks allocated to that file are placed on
              a storage pool with the specified Affinity.  For directories with
              an Affinity new files created in that directory inherit the
              Affinity from the directory.

       -l     This option says to just list the affinity for the specified file
              and exit.

       -d     This option says to delete the affinity from the specified file or
              directory, if one exists.

       filename
              Specifies the file or directory operated on.

EXAMPLES
       List the affinity on the file /usr/clips/foo.

          rock # cvaffinity -l /usr/clips/foo

       Set this file or directory to use the storage pool that has the jmfn8
       affinity type.

          rock # cvaffinity -s jmfn8 /usr/clips/filename

       Remove the affinity from the /usr/clips/mydir, if one is currently
       assigned.

          rock # cvaffinity -d /usr/clips/mydir

SEE ALSO
       snfs_config(5), cvadmin(8)



