CVMKFILE(1)                  General Commands Manual                 CVMKFILE(1)



NAME
       cvmkfile - Create a pre-allocated file

SYNOPSIS
       cvmkfile [-eprswz] [-k key] size[k|m|g|t] filename

DESCRIPTION
       cvmkfile can be used to pre-allocate a file on the Xsan volume.  This is
       useful and preferable when preparing a file for use in a real-time or
       streaming environment as the entire file is represented in only one file
       system extent. Additionally, a file can be placed onto a specific storage
       pool by specifying the key value, which is used as the affinity locator.
       See snfs_config(5) for more details about affinities.

       WARNING: This will destroy all existing data for the specified file
       unless the -e option is used.

OPTIONS
       -e     The -e option tells cvmkfile not to clobber an existing file, just
              expand or verify the requested space.  The default behavior is to
              unlink and re-create an existing file (see WARNING above).

       -k key The -k key optionally tells the file system where to place the
              data file.  If an Affinity Key is specified, the file is placed on
              storage pools that are specified to support this key. If there is
              no storage pool with the key specified, then the file is placed in
              non-exclusive data pools. If there are no non-exclusive data
              pools, then ENOSPC (no space) is returned.

       -p     The -p option forces the allocation and any subsequent expansions
              to be fitted "perfectly" as multiples of the PerfectFitSize
              configuration parameter. The allocation extent will always line up
              on and be a perfect multiple of the number of blocks specified in
              PerfectFitSize.

       -r     The -r option causes the file to be written with pseudo-random
              data. This can take a significant amount of time.

       -s     The -s option forces the allocation to line up on the beginning
              block modulus of the storage pool. This can help performance in
              situations where the I/O size perfectly spans the width of the
              storage pool's disks.

       -w     The -w option sets the file size to be equal to size.  Without
              this option the blocks are allocated but the size is set to zero.
              NOTE: Unless the -z option is used, the new file will contain
              undefined data.  Using the -w option is not recommended unless
              absolutely needed, and beware that it could cause some write
              operations to become read-modify-write operations.

       -z     The -z option causes the file to be physically zeroed out. This
              can take a significant amount of time.

       size[k|m|g|t]
              The size argument specifies the number of bytes, kilobytes(k),
              megabytes(m), gigabytes(g), terabytes(t) to allocate for the file.
              Multiple extents will be allocated if there is insufficient
              contiguous available space to satisfy the requested amount.  In
              the event that there is not enough space to satisfy the request,
              the file size will still reflect the requested size value if the
              -w option is specified.

       filename
              The file to be created.

EXAMPLES
       Make a file of one gigabyte with zero length. Allocate it on a storage
       pool that has specified the affinity key 6100_n8.

          rock # cvmkfile -k 6100_n8 1g foobar

SEE ALSO
       snfs_config(5), cvmkdir(1)



