DITTO(1)                     General Commands Manual                    DITTO(1)




NAME
     ditto – copy directory hierarchies, create and extract archives

SYNOPSIS
     ditto [-v] [-V] [-X] [<options>] src ... dst_directory
     ditto [-v] [-V] [<options>] src_file dst_file
     ditto -c [-z | -j | -k] [-v] [-V] [-X] [<options>] src dst_archive
     ditto -x [-z | -j | -k] [-v] [-V] [<options>] src_archive ... dst_directory
     ditto -h | --help

DESCRIPTION
     In its first form, ditto copies one or more source files or directories to
     a destination directory.  If the destination directory does not exist it
     will be created before the first source is copied.  If the destination
     directory already exists then the source directories are merged with the
     previous contents of the destination.

     In its second form, ditto copies a file to the supplied dst_file pathname.

     The next two forms reflect ditto's ability to create and extract archives.
     These archives can be either CPIO format (preferred for unix content) or
     PKZip (for Windows compatibility).  src_archive (and dst_archive) can be
     the single character '-', causing ditto to read (write) archive data from
     stdin (or to stdout, respectively).

     ditto follows symbolic links provided as arguments but does not follow any
     links as it traverses the source or destination hierarchies.  ditto
     overwrites existing files, symbolic links, and devices in the destination
     when these are copied from a source.  The resulting files, links, and
     devices will have the same mode, access time, modification time, owner, and
     group as the source items from which they are copied.  Pipes, sockets, and
     files with names beginning with .nfs or .afpDeleted will be ignored.  ditto
     does not modify the mode, owner, group, extended attributes, or ACLs of
     existing directories in the destination.  Files and symbolic links cannot
     overwrite directories or vice-versa.

     ditto can be used to "thin" Universal Mach-O binaries during a copy.  ditto
     can also copy files selectively based on the contents of a BOM ("Bill of
     Materials") file.  ditto preserves file hard links (but not directory hard
     links) present in the source directories and preserves setuid and setgid
     modes when run as the superuser.

     ditto will preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data information when
     copying unless instructed otherwise using --norsrc .  --norsrc will disable
     copy of resource forks, extended attributes, Access Control Lists (ACLs),
     as well as quarantine bits.  DITTONORSRC can be set in the environment as
     an alias to --norsrc --noextattr --noacl --noqtn on the command line.
     However, each option can be individually turned on or off, see the OPTIONS
     section for more details.

OPTIONS
     -h, --help    Print full usage.

     -v            Print a line of output to stderr for each source directory
                   copied.

     -V            Print a line of output to stderr for every file, symbolic
                   link, and device copied.

     -X            When copying one or more source directories, do not descend
                   into directories that have a different device ID.

     -c            Create an archive at the destination path.  The default
                   format is CPIO, unless -k is given.  CPIO archives should be
                   stored in files with names ending in .cpio.  Compressed CPIO
                   archives should be stored in files with names ending in
                   .cpgz.

     -z            Create compressed CPIO archives, using gzip(1) compression.

     -j            Create compressed CPIO archives, using bzip2(1) compression.

     -x            Extract the archives given as source arguments. The format is
                   assumed to be CPIO, unless -k is given.  Compressed CPIO is
                   automatically handled.

     -k            Create or extract from a PKZip archive instead of the default
                   CPIO.  PKZip archives should be stored in filenames ending in
                   .zip.

     --keepParent  When creating an archive, embed the parent directory name src
                   in dst_archive.

     --arch arch   Thin Universal binaries to the specified architecture.  If
                   multiple --arch options are specified then the resulting
                   destination file will contain each of the specified
                   architectures (if they are present in the source file).  arch
                   should be specified as "arm64", "x86_64", etc.

     --bom bom     Copy only files, links, devices, and directories that are
                   present in the specified BOM.

     --rsrc        Preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data.  ditto will store
                   this data in Carbon-compatible ._ AppleDouble files on
                   filesystems that do not natively support resource forks.  As
                   of Mac OS X 10.4, --rsrc is default behavior.

     --norsrc      Do not preserve resource forks and HFS meta-data.  If both
                   --norsrc and --rsrc are passed, whichever is passed last will
                   take precedence.  Both options override DITTONORSRC. Unless
                   explicitly specified, --norsrc also implies --noextattr and
                   --noacl to match the behavior of Mac OS X 10.4.

     --extattr     Preserve extended attributes (requires --rsrc). As of Mac OS
                   X 10.5, --extattr is the default.

     --noextattr   Do not preserve extended attributes (requires --norsrc).

     --qtn         Preserve quarantine information.  As of Mac OS X 10.5, --qtn
                   is the default.

     --noqtn       Do not preserve quarantine information.

     --acl         Preserve Access Control Lists (ACLs).  As of Mac OS X 10.5,
                   --acl is the default.

     --noacl       Do not preserve ACLs.

     --nocache     Do not perform copies using the Mac OS X Unified Buffer
                   Cache. Files read and written will not be cached, although if
                   the file is already present in the cache, the cached
                   information will be used.

     --hfsCompression
                   When copying files or extracting content from an archive, if
                   the destination is an HFS+ or APFS volume that supports
                   filesystem compression, all the content will be compressed if
                   appropriate. This is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or
                   later, and is only intended to be used in installation and
                   backup scenarios that involve system files. Since files using
                   filesystem compression are not readable on versions of Mac OS
                   X earlier than 10.6, this flag should not be used when
                   dealing with non-system files or other user-generated content
                   that will be used on a version of Mac OS X earlier than 10.6.

     --nohfsCompression
                   Do not compress files with filesystem compression when
                   copying or extracting content from an archive unless the
                   content is already compressed with filesystem compression.
                   This flag is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.
                   --nohfsCompression is the default.

     --preserveHFSCompression
                   When copying files to an HFS+ or APFS volume that supports
                   filesystem compression, ditto will preserve the compression
                   of any source files that were using filesystem compression.
                   This flag is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.
                   --preserveHFSCompression is the default.

     --nopreserveHFSCompression
                   Do not preserve filesystem compression when copying files
                   that are already compressed with filesystem compression. This
                   is only supported on Mac OS X 10.6 or later.

     --sequesterRsrc
                   When creating a PKZip archive, preserve resource forks and
                   HFS meta-data in the subdirectory __MACOSX.  PKZip extraction
                   will automatically find these resources.

     --zlibCompressionLevel num
                   Sets the compression level to use when creating a PKZip
                   archive. The compression level can be set from 0 to 9, where
                   0 represents no compression, and 9 represents optimal
                   (slowest) compression. By default, ditto will use the default
                   compression level as defined by zlib.

     --password    When extracting a password-encrypted ZIP archive, you must
                   specify --password to allow ditto to prompt for a password to
                   use to extract the contents of the file. If this option is
                   not provided, and a password-encrypted file is encountered,
                   ditto will emit an error message.

     --persistRootless
                   If a file being replaced has the SF_RESTRICTED flag or the
                   com.apple.rootless extended attribute set, retain it even if
                   the source file may not have had the same flag or attribute.

     --nopersistRootless
                   Do not persist the SF_RESTRICTED flag or the
                   com.apple.rootless extended attribute for files being
                   replaced.

     --nonAtomicCopies
                   Do not perform atomic copies when replacing existing files.
                   By default ditto will atomically swap new files into place
                   when completing a copy.

     --segmentLargeFiles
                   When copying files to a CPIO archive, segment files larger
                   than 8 gigabytes into multiple entries.

     --keepBinaries
                   When copying files ditto will set aside the original Mach-O
                   binary when it is being replaced.  The file name will be
                   changed to a random number preceeded by the prefix .BC.T_

     --keepBinariesList path
                   When ditto keeps binary files it will record the location of
                   the kept file in the file at the specified path.

     --keepBinariesPattern regex
                   Keep any regular file that matches the specified regular
                   expression. Note that this file must not be a Mach-O binary.

     --lang lang   When copying files with an index bom specified via -b option
                   the user can specify language variants to filter from the
                   index bom.  By default ditto will create a new index bom at
                   /tmp/ditto.XXXXX representing the filtered contents.  The
                   user can direct the output bom via the -o flag.

     --outBom bom  Specify an explicit path for the output bom.  This bom will
                   only be created if the user specified the -o flag or the -l
                   flags.

     --option key=value
                   Specify an arbitrary key value pair to be passed to the
                   copier.  The value can be a string, boolean, or integer.
                   Booleans can be specified as 'true', 'false', 'yes', or 'no'.

EXAMPLES
     The command:
           ditto src_directory dst_directory
     copies the contents of src_directory into dst_directory, creating
     dst_directory if it does not already exist.

     The command:
           ditto src_directory dir/dst_directory
     copies the contents of src_directory into dir/dst_directory, creating dir
     and dst_directory if they don't already exist.

     The command:
           ditto src-1 ... src-n dst_directory
     copies the contents of all of the src directories into dst_directory,
     creating dst_directory if it does not already exist.

     The command:
           ditto --arch ppc universal_file thin_file
     copies the contents of universal_file into thin_file, thinning executable
     code to ppc-only on the fly.

     The command:
           ditto -c --norsrc Scripts -|ssh rhost ditto -x --norsrc - ./Scripts
     copies Scripts, skipping any resources or meta-data, to rhost.

     The command:
           pax -f archive.cpio
     will list the files in the CPIO archive archive.cpio.

     The command:
           pax -zf archive.cpgz
     will list the files in the compressed CPIO archive archive.cpgz.

     The command:
           ditto -c -k --sequesterRsrc --keepParent src_directory archive.zip
     will create a PKZip archive similarly to the Finder's Compress
     functionality.

     The command:
           unzip -l archive.zip
     will list the files in the PKZip archive archive.zip.

ERRORS
     ditto returns 0 if everything is copied, otherwise non-zero.  ditto almost
     never gives up, preferring to report errors along the way.  Diagnostic
     messages will be printed to standard error.

ENVIRONMENT
     DITTOABORT                If the environment variable DITTOABORT is set,
                               ditto will call abort(3) if it encounters a fatal
                               error.

     DITTONORSRC               If DITTONORSRC is set but --rsrc, --extattr, and
                               --acl are not specified, ditto will not preserve
                               those additional types of metadata.

     DITTOKEEPBINARIESPATTERN  If the environment variable
                               DITTOKEEPBINARIESPATTERN is set, ditto will keep
                               files that match the regular expression.  This
                               matches the behavior of --keepBinariesPattern

     DITTOKEEPBINARIESDIR      By default, ditto will keep the original file
                               adjacent to its replacement.  If the environment
                               variable DITTOKEEPBINARIESDIR is set, ditto will
                               move kept files into the specified directory
                               path.  The files will be renamed to a random UUID
                               and the directory will be kept balanced.

     DITTO_TEST_OPTIONS        If DITTO_TEST_OPTIONS is set to 1 ditto will
                               print the parameters to be passed to
                               BOMCopierCopyWithOptions for each source and
                               destination pair, including the contents of the
                               options dictionary. It will then exit without
                               performing any copy operation.

BUGS
     ditto doesn't copy directories into directories in the same way as cp(1).
     In particular,
           ditto foo bar
     will copy the contents of foo into bar, whereas
           cp -r foo bar
     copies foo itself into bar. Though this is not a bug, some may consider
     this bug-like behavior.  --keepParent for non-archive copies will
     eventually alleviate this problem.

SEE ALSO
     bom(5), lsbom(8), mkbom(8), cpio(1), zip(1), gzip(1), bzip2(1), tar(1).

HISTORY
     ditto first appeared in Mac OS X (10.0)

