FOOTPRINT(1)                 General Commands Manual                FOOTPRINT(1)

NAME
     footprint – gathers memory information about one or more processes

SYNOPSIS
     footprint [-j path] [-f bytes|formatted|pages] [--sort column]
               [-p name|pid] [-x name|pid] [-t] [-s] [-v] [-y] [-w] [--swapped]
               [--wired] [-a] process-name | pid | memgraph [...]
     footprint --sample interval ...
     footprint -h, --help

DESCRIPTION
     The footprint utility gathers and displays memory consumption information
     for the specified processes or memory graph files.

     footprint will display all addressable memory used by the specified
     processes, but it emphasizes memory considered 'dirty' by the kernel for
     purposes of accounting.  If multiple processes are specified, footprint
     will de-duplicate multiply mapped objects and will display shared objects
     separately from private ones.

     footprint must be run as root when inspecting processes that are not owned
     by the current user.

     Processes are specified using a PID, exact process name, or partial process
     name. Memory information will be displayed for all processes matching any
     provided name.

OPTIONS
     -a, --all
             target all processes (will take much longer)

     -j, --json path
             also save a JSON representation of the data to the specified path

     -f, --format bytes|formatted|pages
             textual output should be formatted in bytes, pages, or human-
             readable formatted (default)

     --sort column
             textual output should be sorted by the given column name, for
             example dirty (default), clean, category, etc.

     -p, --proc name
             target the given process by name (can be used multiple times)

     -p, --pid pid
             target the given process by pid (can be used multiple times)

     -x, --exclude name/pid
             exclude the given process by name or pid (can be used multiple
             times)

             often used with --all to exclude some processes from analysis

     -t, --targetChildren
             in addition to the supplied processes, target their children,
             grandchildren, etc.

     -s, --skip
             skip processes that are dirty tracked and have no outstanding XPC
             transactions (i.e., are "clean")

     --minFootprint MiB
             skip processes with footprint less than the provided minimum MiB.

     --forkCorpse
             analyze a forked corpse of the target process rather than the
             original process. Due to system resource limits on corpses this
             argument is not compatible with --all or if attempting to analyze
             more than a couple processes.

     -v      display all regions and vmmap-like output of address space layout.
             Without this flag the default output is a summary of the totals for
             each memory category.

     -w, --wide
             show wide output with all columns and full paths (implies --swapped
             --wired)

     --swapped
             show swapped/compressed column

     --wired
             show wired memory column

     --vmObjectDirty
             interpret dirty memory as viewed by VM objects in the kernel,
             rather than the default behavior which interprets dirty memory
             through the pmap. This mode may calculate a total footprint that
             does not match what is shown in other tools such as top(1) or
             Activity Monitor.app. However, it can provide insight into dirty
             memory that is by design not included in the default mode, such as
             dirty file-backed memory or a VM region mapped into a process that
             is normally accounted to only the process that created it.
             The --vmObjectDirty mode was the default in versions prior to macOS
             10.15.

     --unmapped
             search all processes for memory owned by the target processes but
             not mapped into their address spaces (see the discussion in MEMORY
             ACCOUNTING for more details)

     --sample interval
             Start footprint in sampling mode, gathering data every interval
             seconds (which can be fractional like 0.5). Text output will be a
             concatenation of usual text output with added timestamps. JSON
             output will contain a "samples" array with many of the same
             key/values that would normally be at the top level. All other
             command line options are also supported in sampling mode.

     --sample-duration duration
             Time limit on the number of seconds to sample when combined with
             --sample.  When this flag is omitted or set to 0, sampling
             continues until <ctrl-c>.

     -h, --help
             display help and exit

COLUMNS
     Column names between parentheses indicate that they are a subset of one or
     more non-parenthesized columns.

     Dirty        Memory that has been written to by a process, which includes
                  "Swapped", purgeable non-volatile memory, and implicitly
                  written memory such as zero-filled. A process's footprint is
                  equal to the total of all dirty memory.

     (Swapped)    A subset of "Dirty" memory that has been compressed or swapped
                  out by the kernel.

     Clean        Resident memory which is neither "Dirty" nor "Reclaimable".

     Reclaimable  Resident memory that has been explicitly marked as available
                  for reuse. Memory can be marked reclaimable when it is made
                  purgeable volatile (including purgeable empty) or by using
                  madvise(2) with advice such as MADV_FREE. Reclaimable memory
                  can be taken away from a process at any time in response to
                  system memory pressure.

     (Wired)      Memory that has been wired down (e.g., by calling mlock(2) ).
                  This memory is usually a subset of "Dirty" and cannot be paged
                  out.

     Regions      The count of VM regions contributing to this entry. Each
                  binary segment contained within the shared cache region is
                  considered a separate region for display purposes.

     Category     A descriptive name for this entry, such as a human-readable
                  name for a VM_MEMORY_* tag, a path to a mapped file, or a
                  segment of a loaded binary.

INVESTIGATING MEMORY FOOTPRINT
     footprint provides an efficient calculation of a process's memory footprint
     and a high-level overview of the various categories of memory contributing
     to that footprint. The details that it provides can be used as a starting
     point in an investigation.

     Prioritize reducing "Dirty" memory. Dirty memory cannot be automatically
     reclaimed by the kernel and is directly used by various parts of the OS as
     a measure of a process's contribution to system memory pressure.
     Next, focus on reducing "Reclaimable" memory, especially purgeable volatile
     memory which will become dirty when marked non-volatile. Although this
     memory can be cheaply reclaimed by the kernel, purgeable volatile memory is
     commonly used as a cache of data that may be expensive for a user process
     to recreate (such as decoded image data).
     "Clean" memory can also be cheaply taken by the kernel, but unlike
     "Reclaimable" it can be restored automatically by the kernel without the
     help of a user process. For example, clean file backed data can be
     automatically evicted from memory and re-read from disk on-demand. Having
     too much clean memory can still be a performance problem, since large
     working sets can cause thrashing when loading and unloading various parts
     of a process under low memory situations.
     Lastly, avoid using "Wired" memory as much as possible since it cannot be
     paged out or reclaimed.

     Malloc memory
             Memory allocated by malloc(3) is one of the most common forms of
             memory, making up what is usually referred to as the 'heap'. This
             memory will have a category prefixed with 'MALLOC_'.  malloc(3)
             allocates VM regions on a process's behalf; the contents of those
             regions will be the individual allocations representing objects and
             data in a process. Refer to the heap(1) tool to further categorize
             the objects contained within a malloc memory region, or leaks(1) to
             detect a subset of heap memory that is no longer reachable.

     Binary segments
             Loaded binaries will be visible as an entry with both the segment
             type and the path to the binary, most often __TEXT, __DATA, or
             __LINKEDIT segments. Non-shared cache binaries and pages in the
             __DATA segment (such as those that contain modified global
             variables) can often have dirty memory.

     Mapped files
             File-backed memory allocated using mmap(2) will show up as 'mapped
             file' along with the path to the file.

     VM allocations
             Most other types of memory can be tagged with a name that indicates
             what subsystem allocated the region (see mmap(2) for more
             information). For instance, Foundation.framework may allocate
             memory and tag it with VM_MEMORY_FOUNDATION, which appears in
             footprint's output as 'Foundation'. Processes are able to allocate
             memory with their own tags by using an appropriate tag in the range
             VM_MEMORY_APPLICATION_SPECIFIC_1-VM_MEMORY_APPLICATION_SPECIFIC_16.
             Memory which does not fall into one of the previous categories and
             has not been explicitly tagged will be marked 'untagged
             ("VM_ALLOCATE")'.

     Kernel memory
             In the special case of analyzing kernel_task, footprint's output
             and categories will mirror much of the data also available via
             zprint(1).  This is memory allocated by the kernel or a kernel
             extension and is generally unavailable to userspace directly.
             Despite the restricted access, userspace programs often influence
             when and how much memory the kernel allocates (e.g., for resources
             allocated on behalf of a user process).

     For malloc and VM allocated memory, details about when and where the memory
     was allocated can often be obtained by enabling MallocStackLogging and
     using malloc_history(1) to view the backtrace at the time of each
     allocation. Xcode.app and Instruments.app also provide visual tools for
     debugging memory, such as the Xcode's Memory Graph Debugger.

     vmmap(1) provides a similar view to footprint, but with an emphasis on
     displaying the raw metrics returned by the kernel rather than the
     simplified and more processed view of footprint.  One important difference
     is that vmmap(1)'s "DIRTY" column does not include the compressed or
     swapped memory found in the "SWAPPED" column.  Additionally, vmmap(1) can
     only operate on a single process and contains additional information such
     as a malloc zone summary.

MEMORY ACCOUNTING
     Determining what dirty memory should and should not be accounted to a
     process is a difficult problem. Memory can be shared by many processes, it
     can sometimes be allocated on your behalf by other processes, and no matter
     how the accounting is done can often be expensive to accurately calculate.

     Many operating systems have historically exposed memory metrics such as
     Virtual Size (VSIZE) and Resident Size (RSIZE/RPRVT/RSS/etc.). Metrics such
     as these, which are useful in their own respect, are not great indicators
     of the amount of physical memory required by a process to run (and
     therefore the memory pressure that a process applies to the system). For
     instance, Virtual Size includes allocations that may not be backed by
     physical memory, and Resident Size includes clean and volatile purgeable
     memory that can be reclaimed by the kernel (as described earlier).
     On the other hand, analyzing the dirty memory reported by the underlying VM
     objects mapped into a process (the approach taken by --vmObjectDirty),
     while more accurate, is expensive and cannot be done in real-time for
     systems that need to frequently know the memory footprint of a process.

     Apple platforms instead keep track of the 'physical footprint' by using a
     per-process ledger in the kernel that is kept up-to-date by the pmap and
     other subsystems. This ledger is cheap to query, suitably accurate, and
     provides additional features such as tracking peak memory and the ability
     to charge one process for memory that is no longer mapped into it or that
     may have been allocated by another process. In cases where footprint is
     unable to analyze a portion of 'physical footprint' that is not mapped into
     a process, this memory will be listed as 'Owned physical footprint
     (unmapped)'. If this memory is mapped into another userspace process then
     the --unmapped argument can be used to search all processes for a mapping
     of the same VM object, which if found will provide a better description and
     what process(s) have mapped the memory. This also happens by default when
     targeting all processes via --all.  Any memory still listed as "(unmapped)"
     after using --unmapped is likely not mapped into any userspace process and
     instead only referenced by the kernel or drivers.
     The exact definition of this 'physical footprint' ledger is complicated and
     subject to change, but suffice it to say that the default mode of footprint
     aims to present an accurate memory breakdown that matches the value
     reported by the ledger. Most other diagnostic tools, such as the 'MEM'
     column in top(1), the 'Memory' column in Activity Monitor.app, and the
     Memory Debug Gauge in Xcode.app, query this ledger to populate their
     metrics.

     Physical footprint can be potentially be split into multiple subcategories,
     such as network related memory, graphics, etc. When a memory allocation
     (either directly mapped into a process, or owned but unmapped) has such a
     classification, footprint will append it to the category name such as
     'IOKit (graphics)' or 'Owned physical footprint (unmapped) (media)'.

SEE ALSO
     vmmap(1), heap(1), leaks(1), malloc_history(1), zprint(1)

