HIUTIL(1)                    General Commands Manual                   HIUTIL(1)

NAME
     hiutil – utility for creating and examining Help Viewer indices

SYNOPSIS
     hiutil -I FORMAT -Cf file [-1agv] [-m NUM] [-s LANG | PATH] [-r URL]
            [-t EXT] dir
     hiutil [-ADEFMST] -f file

DESCRIPTION
     hiutil is used to create .helpindex files in the Latent Symantic Mapping
     (LSM) help format and .cshelpindex files in the Spotlight help format. It
     is also capable of examining Spotlight help indices using the modes listed
     below. To examine LSM indices, use a version of hiutil earlier than 2.0.

     Spotlight help indices are required in macOS Mojave or later. Spotlight
     indices are not compatible with versions earlier than macOS Mojave.

     The macOS help system automatically generates indices for local help books
     (see ~/Library/Caches/com.apple.helpd/). If your help content will be
     hosted remotely, you may want to manually generate an index to include with
     your remote help book.

     Creation, management, inspection, and information modes are listed directly
     below.

     Create and manage modes:

     -C, --create
              Create an index file at the location you specify. You must provide
              both a directory of HTML files to index and a path to an output
              file, which will be overwritten if the ouput file already exists.

     -I, --index-format
              Pass the index format type as either 'lsm' or 'corespotlight'.

     -P, --purge-caches
              Terminate Help Viewer and helpd if they are running and purge
              persisted Help Viewer related caches.

     Inspection and infomation modes:

     -A, --list-anchors
              List the index's anchors separated by newlines.

     -D, --list-anchor-dictionary
              List the index's anchor dictionary in XML. This includes a list of
              which files contain each anchor.

     -E, --list-index-versions
              List the index's version dictionary in XML. It describes the
              system environment on which the index was created.

     -F, --list-files
              List all the files included in the index, separated by newlines.
              You can use the -v option with this mode to get titles and
              descriptions as well.

     -H, --help
              Print out usage data.

     -M, --list-min-term-length
              List the index's minimum term length.

     -S, --list-stopwords
              List the index's stopwords separated by newlines.

     -T, --list-terms
              List the terms indexed in each file.

     -V, --version
              Print out the version of the tool.

GENERAL OPTIONS
     These can be used with any mode.

     -f, --file
              Pass in the path to a file, either one to be created or one to be
              examined.

     -v, --verbose
              Specify verbose output. Errors are always shown, but passing this
              argument once prints out warnings also. Passing the argument twice
              prints out errors, warnings, and progress notes.

CREATE OPTIONS
     These can only be used with the create mode.

     -1       Index one file at a time. The default is to use a queue to index
              several files in parallel. In combination with -vvv, this option
              can be useful in determining which file an error message is from.

     -a, --anchors
              Specify index anchors. The default is to have none. Without this
              flag, there will be no anchor dictionary in the index.

     -e, --exclude=PATTERN
              Exclude files that match the specified pattern. Uses NSPredicate's
              MATCHES comparison method on the file's path relative to the
              directory being indexed. This option can be passed as many times
              as necessary, once per pattern. Exclusions take precedence over
              files included with -i.

     -g, --generate-summaries
              Generate summary text. This can be slow, but is useful if you
              don't have DESCRIPTION meta tags on some pages.

     -i, --include=PATTERN
              Include files that match the specified pattern. Uses NSPredicate's
              MATCHES comparison method on the file's path relative to the
              directory being indexed. The default patterns to index are ".htm"
              and ".html". If these defaults are undesirable, you may use -e
              above to exclude them. This option can be passed as many times as
              necessary, once per pattern.

     -m, --min-term-length=NUM
              Specify a minimum term length. The value can be 1, 2 or 3. It
              represents the number of consecutive tokens (typically a
              character) required for a term not to be ignored by the indexer.
              Recommended values are 3 for English and 1 for Chinese and other
              ideographic languages.

     -r, --remote-url=URL
              Include a remote URL with the index. This is only useful in Type 1
              or Type 2 help books, because the URL is in the help bundle's
              Info.plist for Type 3 books. The URL should be fully qualified.
              For example:

                    https://www.mycompany.com/help_v1/

     -s, --stopwords=LANG|PATH
              Use stopwords. If you have your own stopwords .plist, provide that
              path. Otherwise, pass the two-character language code. For
              example:

                     en     English
                     es     Spanish
                     de     German
                     fr     French
                     hu     Hungarian
                     it     Italian
                     sv     Swedish

     -l, --locale=LANG
              Specify a locale for the index. Instead of having to boot into the
              locale to index, pass the language code or locale identifier here
              to index for that language. Example locale identifiers:

                     en_US  US English
                     es_ES  Spanish
                     de     German
                     fr     French
                     hu     Hungarian
                     ru_RU  Russian

FILES
     /usr/share/hiutil/Stopwords.plist

     List of default stopwords in different languages

EXAMPLES
     Create .cshelpindex file from a directory of HTML help:

           hiutil -I corespotlight -Caf /pathto/myhelp.cshelpindex
           /pathto/myhelpdir/

     Inspect the anchors in a .cshelpindex file:

           hiutil -I corespotlight -Af /pathto/myhelp.cshelpindex

     Verbosely inspect the terms in a .cshelpindex file:

           hiutil -I corespotlight -Tvf /pathto/myhelp.cshelpindex

NOTES
     hiutil requires macOS 10.14 or later.

