KILLALL(1)                   General Commands Manual                  KILLALL(1)

NAME
     killall – kill processes by name

SYNOPSIS
     killall [-delmsvqz] [-help] [-I] [-u user] [-t tty] [-c procname] [-SIGNAL]
             [procname ...]

DESCRIPTION
     The killall utility kills processes selected by name, as opposed to the
     selection by PID as done by kill(1).  By default, it will send a TERM
     signal to all processes with a real UID identical to the caller of killall
     that match the name procname.  The super-user is allowed to kill any
     process.

     The options are as follows:

     -d                 Be more verbose about what will be done, but do not send
                        any signal.  The total number of user processes and the
                        real user ID is shown.  A list of the processes that
                        will be sent the signal will be printed, or a message
                        indicating that no matching processes have been found.

     -e                 Use the effective user ID instead of the (default) real
                        user ID for matching processes specified with the -u
                        option.

     -help              Give a help on the command usage and exit.

     -I                 Request confirmation before attempting to signal each
                        process.

     -l                 List the names of the available signals and exit, like
                        in kill(1).

     -m                 Match the argument procname as a (case sensitive)
                        regular expression against the names of processes found.
                        CAUTION!  This is dangerous, a single dot will match any
                        process running under the real UID of the caller.

     -v                 Be verbose about what will be done.

     -s                 Same as -v, but do not send any signal.

     -SIGNAL            Send a different signal instead of the default TERM.
                        The signal may be specified either as a name (with or
                        without a leading “SIG”), or numerically.

     -u user            Limit potentially matching processes to those belonging
                        to the specified user.

     -t tty             Limit potentially matching processes to those running on
                        the specified tty.

     -c procname        Limit potentially matching processes to those matching
                        the specified procname.

     -q                 Suppress error message if no processes are matched.

     -z                 Do not skip zombies.  This should not have any effect
                        except to print a few error messages if there are zombie
                        processes that match the specified pattern.

ALL PROCESSES
     Sending a signal to all processes with the given UID is already supported
     by kill(1).  So use kill(1) for this job (e.g. “kill -TERM -1” or as root
     “echo kill -TERM -1 | su -m <user>”).

IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
     This FreeBSD implementation of killall has completely different semantics
     as compared to the traditional UNIX System V behavior of killall.  The
     latter will kill all processes that the current user is able to kill, and
     is intended to be used by the system shutdown process only.

EXIT STATUS
     The killall utility exits 0 if some processes have been found and signalled
     successfully.  Otherwise, a status of 1 will be returned.

EXAMPLES
     Send SIGTERM to all firefox processes:

           killall firefox

     Send SIGTERM to firefox processes belonging to USER:

           killall -u ${USER} firefox

     Stop all firefox processes:

           killall -SIGSTOP firefox

     Resume firefox processes:

           killall -SIGCONT firefox

     Show what would be done to firefox processes, but do not actually signal
     them:

           killall -s firefox

     Send SIGTERM to all processes matching provided pattern (like vim and
     vimdiff):

           killall -m 'vim*'

DIAGNOSTICS
     Diagnostic messages will only be printed if the -d flag is used.

SEE ALSO
     kill(1), pkill(1), sysctl(3)

HISTORY
     The killall command appeared in FreeBSD 2.1.  It has been modeled after the
     killall command as available on other platforms.

AUTHORS
     The killall program was originally written in Perl and was contributed by
     Wolfram Schneider, this manual page has been written by Jörg Wunsch.  The
     current version of killall was rewritten in C by Peter Wemm using
     sysctl(3).

