LS(1)                        General Commands Manual                       LS(1)

NAME
     ls – list directory contents

SYNOPSIS
     ls [-@ABCFGHILOPRSTUWabcdefghiklmnopqrstuvwxy1%,] [--color=when]
        [-D format] [file ...]

DESCRIPTION
     For each operand that names a file of a type other than directory, ls
     displays its name as well as any requested, associated information.  For
     each operand that names a file of type directory, ls displays the names of
     files contained within that directory, as well as any requested, associated
     information.

     If no operands are given, the contents of the current directory are
     displayed.  If more than one operand is given, non-directory operands are
     displayed first; directory and non-directory operands are sorted separately
     and in lexicographical order.

     The following options are available:

     -@      Display extended attribute keys and sizes in long (-l) output.

     -A      Include directory entries whose names begin with a dot (‘.’) except
             for . and ...  Automatically set for the super-user unless -I is
             specified.

     -B      Force printing of non-printable characters (as defined by ctype(3)
             and current locale settings) in file names as \xxx, where xxx is
             the numeric value of the character in octal.  This option is not
             defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -C      Force multi-column output; this is the default when output is to a
             terminal.

     -D format
             When printing in the long (-l) format, use format to format the
             date and time output.  The argument format is a string used by
             strftime(3).  Depending on the choice of format string, this may
             result in a different number of columns in the output.  This option
             overrides the -T option.  This option is not defined in IEEE Std
             1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -F      Display a slash (‘/’) immediately after each pathname that is a
             directory, an asterisk (‘*’) after each that is executable, an at
             sign (‘@’) after each symbolic link, an equals sign (‘=’) after
             each socket, a percent sign (‘%’) after each whiteout, and a
             vertical bar (‘|’) after each that is a FIFO.

     -G      Enable colorized output.  This option is equivalent to defining
             CLICOLOR or COLORTERM in the environment and setting --color=auto.
             (See below.)  This functionality can be compiled out by removing
             the definition of COLORLS.  This option is not defined in IEEE Std
             1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -H      Symbolic links on the command line are followed.  This option is
             assumed if none of the -F, -d, or -l options are specified.

     -I      Prevent -A from being automatically set for the super-user.  This
             option is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -L      Follow all symbolic links to final target and list the file or
             directory the link references rather than the link itself.  This
             option cancels the -P option.

     -O      Include the file flags in a long (-l) output.  This option is
             incompatible with IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).  See chflags(1)
             for a list of file flags and their meanings.

     -P      If argument is a symbolic link, list the link itself rather than
             the object the link references.  This option cancels the -H and -L
             options.

     -R      Recursively list subdirectories encountered.

     -S      Sort by size (largest file first) before sorting the operands in
             lexicographical order.

     -T      When printing in the long (-l) format, display complete time
             information for the file, including month, day, hour, minute,
             second, and year.  The -D option gives even more control over the
             output format.  This option is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008
             (“POSIX.1”).

     -U      Use time when file was created for sorting or printing.  This
             option is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -W      Display whiteouts when scanning directories.  This option is not
             defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -a      Include directory entries whose names begin with a dot (‘.’).

     -b      As -B, but use C escape codes whenever possible.  This option is
             not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -c      Use time when file status was last changed for sorting or printing.

     --color=when
             Output colored escape sequences based on when, which may be set to
             either always, auto, or never.

             always will make ls always output color.  If TERM is unset or set
             to an invalid terminal, then ls will fall back to explicit ANSI
             escape sequences without the help of termcap(5).  always is the
             default if --color is specified without an argument.

             auto will make ls output escape sequences based on termcap(5), but
             only if stdout is a tty and either the -G flag is specified or the
             COLORTERM environment variable is set and not empty.

             never will disable color regardless of environment variables.
             never is the default when neither --color nor -G is specified.

             For compatibility with GNU coreutils, ls supports yes or force as
             equivalent to always, no or none as equivalent to never, and tty or
             if-tty as equivalent to auto.

     -d      Directories are listed as plain files (not searched recursively).

     -e      Print the Access Control List (ACL) associated with the file, if
             present, in long (-l) output.

     -f      Output is not sorted.  This option turns on -a.  It also negates
             the effect of the -r, -S and -t options.  As allowed by IEEE Std
             1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”), this option has no effect on the -d, -l,
             -R and -s options.

     -g      This option has no effect.  It is only available for compatibility
             with 4.3BSD, where it was used to display the group name in the
             long (-l) format output.  This option is incompatible with IEEE Std
             1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -h      When used with the -l option, use unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte,
             Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte in order to reduce the
             number of digits to four or fewer using base 2 for sizes.  This
             option is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -i      For each file, print the file's file serial number (inode number).

     -k      This has the same effect as setting environment variable BLOCKSIZE
             to 1024, except that it also nullifies any -h options to its left.

     -l      (The lowercase letter “ell”.) List files in the long format, as
             described in the The Long Format subsection below.

     -m      Stream output format; list files across the page, separated by
             commas.

     -n      Display user and group IDs numerically rather than converting to a
             user or group name in a long (-l) output.  This option turns on the
             -l option.

     -o      List in long format, but omit the group id.

     -p      Write a slash (‘/’) after each filename if that file is a
             directory.

     -q      Force printing of non-graphic characters in file names as the
             character ‘?’; this is the default when output is to a terminal.

     -r      Reverse the order of the sort.

     -s      Display the number of blocks used in the file system by each file.
             Block sizes and directory totals are handled as described in The
             Long Format subsection below, except (if the long format is not
             also requested) the directory totals are not output when the output
             is in a single column, even if multi-column output is requested.
             (-l) format, display complete time information for the file,
             including month, day, hour, minute, second, and year.  The -D
             option gives even more control over the output format.  This option
             is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).

     -t      Sort by descending time modified (most recently modified first).
             If two files have the same modification timestamp, sort their names
             in ascending lexicographical order.  The -r option reverses both of
             these sort orders.

             Note that these sort orders are contradictory: the time sequence is
             in descending order, the lexicographical sort is in ascending
             order.  This behavior is mandated by IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”).
             This feature can cause problems listing files stored with
             sequential names on FAT file systems, such as from digital cameras,
             where it is possible to have more than one image with the same
             timestamp.  In such a case, the photos cannot be listed in the
             sequence in which they were taken.  To ensure the same sort order
             for time and for lexicographical sorting, set the environment
             variable LS_SAMESORT or use the -y option.  This causes ls to
             reverse the lexicographical sort order when sorting files with the
             same modification timestamp.

     -u      Use time of last access, instead of time of last modification of
             the file for sorting (-t) or long printing (-l).

     -v      Force unedited printing of non-graphic characters; this is the
             default when output is not to a terminal.

     -w      Force raw printing of non-printable characters.  This is the
             default when output is not to a terminal.  This option is not
             defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 (“POSIX.1”).

     -x      The same as -C, except that the multi-column output is produced
             with entries sorted across, rather than down, the columns.

     -y      When the -t option is set, sort the alphabetical output in the same
             order as the time output.  This has the same effect as setting
             LS_SAMESORT.  See the description of the -t option for more
             details.  This option is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2001
             (“POSIX.1”).

     -%      Distinguish dataless files and directories with a '%' character in
             long

     -1      (The numeric digit “one”.) Force output to be one entry per line.
             This is the default when output is not to a terminal.  (-l) output,
             and don't materialize dataless directories when listing them.

     -,      (Comma) When the -l option is set, print file sizes grouped and
             separated by thousands using the non-monetary separator returned by
             localeconv(3), typically a comma or period.  If no locale is set,
             or the locale does not have a non-monetary separator, this option
             has no effect.  This option is not defined in IEEE Std 1003.1-2001
             (“POSIX.1”).

     The -1, -C, -x, and -l options all override each other; the last one
     specified determines the format used.

     The -c, -u, and -U options all override each other; the last one specified
     determines the file time used.

     The -S and -t options override each other; the last one specified
     determines the sort order used.

     The -B, -b, -w, and -q options all override each other; the last one
     specified determines the format used for non-printable characters.

     The -H, -L and -P options all override each other (either partially or
     fully); they are applied in the order specified.

     By default, ls lists one entry per line to standard output; the exceptions
     are to terminals or when the -C or -x options are specified.

     File information is displayed with one or more ⟨blank⟩s separating the
     information associated with the -i, -s, and -l options.

   The Long Format
     If the -l option is given, the following information is displayed for each
     file: file mode, number of links, owner name, group name, number of bytes
     in the file, abbreviated month, day-of-month file was last modified, hour
     file last modified, minute file last modified, and the pathname.  If the
     file or directory has extended attributes, the permissions field printed by
     the -l option is followed by a '@' character.  Otherwise, if the file or
     directory has extended security information (such as an access control
     list), the permissions field printed by the -l option is followed by a '+'
     character.  If the -% option is given, a '%' character follows the
     permissions field for dataless files and directories, possibly replacing
     the '@' or '+' character.

     If the modification time of the file is more than 6 months in the past or
     future, and the -D or -T are not specified, then the year of the last
     modification is displayed in place of the hour and minute fields.

     If the owner or group names are not a known user or group name, or the -n
     option is given, the numeric ID's are displayed.

     If the file is a character special or block special file, the device number
     for the file is displayed in the size field.  If the file is a symbolic
     link the pathname of the linked-to file is preceded by “->”.

     The listing of a directory's contents is preceded by a labeled total number
     of blocks used in the file system by the files which are listed as the
     directory's contents (which may or may not include . and .. and other files
     which start with a dot, depending on other options).

     The default block size is 512 bytes.  The block size may be set with option
     -k or environment variable BLOCKSIZE.  Numbers of blocks in the output will
     have been rounded up so the numbers of bytes is at least as many as used by
     the corresponding file system blocks (which might have a different size).

     The file mode printed under the -l option consists of the entry type and
     the permissions.  The entry type character describes the type of file, as
     follows:

           -     Regular file.
           b     Block special file.
           c     Character special file.
           d     Directory.
           l     Symbolic link.
           p     FIFO.
           s     Socket.
           w     Whiteout.

     The next three fields are three characters each: owner permissions, group
     permissions, and other permissions.  Each field has three character
     positions:

           1.   If r, the file is readable; if -, it is not readable.

           2.   If w, the file is writable; if -, it is not writable.

           3.   The first of the following that applies:

                      S     If in the owner permissions, the file is not
                            executable and set-user-ID mode is set.  If in the
                            group permissions, the file is not executable and
                            set-group-ID mode is set.

                      s     If in the owner permissions, the file is executable
                            and set-user-ID mode is set.  If in the group
                            permissions, the file is executable and setgroup-ID
                            mode is set.

                      x     The file is executable or the directory is
                            searchable.

                      -     The file is neither readable, writable, executable,
                            nor set-user-ID nor set-group-ID mode, nor sticky.
                            (See below.)

                These next two apply only to the third character in the last
                group (other permissions).

                      T     The sticky bit is set (mode 1000), but not execute
                            or search permission.  (See chmod(1) or sticky(7).)

                      t     The sticky bit is set (mode 1000), and is searchable
                            or executable.  (See chmod(1) or sticky(7).)

     The next field contains a plus (‘+’) character if the file has an ACL, or a
     space (‘ ’) if it does not.  The ls utility does not show the actual ACL;
     use getfacl(1) to do this.

ENVIRONMENT
     The following environment variables affect the execution of ls:

     BLOCKSIZE           If this is set, its value, rounded up to 512 or down to
                         a multiple of 512, will be used as the block size in
                         bytes by the -l and -s options.  See The Long Format
                         subsection for more information.

     CLICOLOR            Use ANSI color sequences to distinguish file types.
                         See LSCOLORS below.  In addition to the file types
                         mentioned in the -F option some extra attributes
                         (setuid bit set, etc.) are also displayed.  The
                         colorization is dependent on a terminal type with the
                         proper termcap(5) capabilities.  The default “cons25”
                         console has the proper capabilities, but to display the
                         colors in an xterm(1), for example, the TERM variable
                         must be set to “xterm-color”.  Other terminal types may
                         require similar adjustments.  Colorization is silently
                         disabled if the output is not directed to a terminal
                         unless the CLICOLOR_FORCE variable is defined or
                         --color is set to “always”.

     CLICOLOR_FORCE      Color sequences are normally disabled if the output is
                         not directed to a terminal.  This can be overridden by
                         setting this variable.  The TERM variable still needs
                         to reference a color capable terminal however otherwise
                         it is not possible to determine which color sequences
                         to use.

     COLORTERM           See description for CLICOLOR above.

     COLUMNS             If this variable contains a string representing a
                         decimal integer, it is used as the column position
                         width for displaying multiple-text-column output.  The
                         ls utility calculates how many pathname text columns to
                         display based on the width provided.  (See -C and -x.)

     LANG                The locale to use when determining the order of day and
                         month in the long -l format output.  See environ(7) for
                         more information.

     LSCOLORS            The value of this variable describes what color to use
                         for which attribute when colors are enabled with
                         CLICOLOR or COLORTERM.  This string is a concatenation
                         of pairs of the format fb, where f is the foreground
                         color and b is the background color.

                         The color designators are as follows:

                               a     black
                               b     red
                               c     green
                               d     brown
                               e     blue
                               f     magenta
                               g     cyan
                               h     light grey
                               A     bold black, usually shows up as dark grey
                               B     bold red
                               C     bold green
                               D     bold brown, usually shows up as yellow
                               E     bold blue
                               F     bold magenta
                               G     bold cyan
                               H     bold light grey; looks like bright white
                               x     default foreground or background

                         Note that the above are standard ANSI colors.  The
                         actual display may differ depending on the color
                         capabilities of the terminal in use.

                         The order of the attributes are as follows:

                               1.   directory
                               2.   symbolic link
                               3.   socket
                               4.   pipe
                               5.   executable
                               6.   block special
                               7.   character special
                               8.   executable with setuid bit set
                               9.   executable with setgid bit set
                               10.  directory writable to others, with sticky
                                    bit
                               11.  directory writable to others, without sticky
                                    bit

                         The default is "exfxcxdxbxegedabagacad", i.e., blue
                         foreground and default background for regular
                         directories, black foreground and red background for
                         setuid executables, etc.

     LS_COLWIDTHS        If this variable is set, it is considered to be a
                         colon-delimited list of minimum column widths.
                         Unreasonable and insufficient widths are ignored (thus
                         zero signifies a dynamically sized column).  Not all
                         columns have changeable widths.  The fields are, in
                         order: inode, block count, number of links, user name,
                         group name, flags, file size, file name.

     LS_SAMESORT         If this variable is set, the -t option sorts the names
                         of files with the same modification timestamp in the
                         same sense as the time sort.  See the description of
                         the -t option for more details.

     TERM                The CLICOLOR and COLORTERM functionality depends on a
                         terminal type with color capabilities.

     TZ                  The timezone to use when displaying dates.  See
                         environ(7) for more information.

EXIT STATUS
     The ls utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     List the contents of the current working directory in long format:

           $ ls -l

     In addition to listing the contents of the current working directory in
     long format, show inode numbers, file flags (see chflags(1)), and suffix
     each filename with a symbol representing its file type:

           $ ls -lioF

     List the files in /var/log, sorting the output such that the most recently
     modified entries are printed first:

           $ ls -lt /var/log

COMPATIBILITY
     The group field is now automatically included in the long listing for files
     in order to be compatible with the IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”)
     specification.

LEGACY DESCRIPTION
     In legacy mode, the -f option does not turn on the -a option and the -g,
     -n, and -o options do not turn on the -l option.

     Also, the -o option causes the file flags to be included in a long (-l)
     output; there is no -O option.

     When -H is specified (and not overridden by -L or -P) and a file argument
     is a symlink that resolves to a non-directory file, the output will reflect
     the nature of the link, rather than that of the file.  In legacy operation,
     the output will describe the file.

     For more information about legacy mode, see compat(5).

SEE ALSO
     chflags(1), chmod(1), getfacl(1), sort(1), xterm(1), localeconv(3),
     strftime(3), strmode(3), compat(5), termcap(5), sticky(7), symlink(7)

STANDARDS
     With the exception of options -g, -n and -o, the ls utility conforms to
     IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 (“POSIX.1”) and IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 (“POSIX.1”).  The
     options -B, -D, -G, -I, -T, -U, -W, -Z, -b, -h, -w, -y and -, are non-
     standard extensions.

     The ACL support is compatible with IEEE Std 1003.2c (“POSIX.2c”) Draft 17
     (withdrawn).

HISTORY
     An ls command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

BUGS
     To maintain backward compatibility, the relationships between the many
     options are quite complex.

     The exception mentioned in the -s option description might be a feature
     that was based on the fact that single-column output usually goes to
     something other than a terminal.  It is debatable whether this is a design
     bug.

     IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) mandates opposite sort orders for files with
     the same timestamp when sorting with the -t option.

