pico(1)                      General Commands Manual                     pico(1)



Name
       pico - simple text editor in the style of the Alpine Composer

Syntax
       pico [ options ] [ file ]

Description
       Pico is a simple, display-oriented text editor based on the Alpine
       message system composer.  As with Alpine, commands are displayed at the
       bottom of the screen, and context-sensitive help is provided.  As
       characters are typed they are immediately inserted into the text.

       Editing commands are entered using control-key combinations.  As a work-
       around for communications programs that swallow certain control
       characters, you can emulate a control key by pressing ESCAPE twice,
       followed by the desired control character, e.g. "ESC ESC c" would be
       equivalent to entering a ctrl-c.  The editor has five basic features:
       paragraph justification, searching, block cut/paste, a spelling checker,
       and a file browser.

       Paragraph justification (or filling) takes place in the paragraph that
       contains the cursor, or, if the cursor is between lines, in the paragraph
       immediately below.  Paragraphs are delimited by blank lines, or by lines
       beginning with a space or tab.  Unjustification can be done immediately
       after justification using the control-U key combination.

       String searches are not sensitive to case.  A search begins at the
       current cursor position and wraps around the end of the text.  The most
       recent search string is offered as the default in subsequent searches.

       Blocks of text can be moved, copied or deleted with creative use of the
       command for mark (ctrl-^), delete (ctrl-k) and undelete (ctrl-u).  The
       delete command will remove text between the "mark" and the current cursor
       position, and place it in the "cut" buffer.  The undelete command effects
       a "paste" at the current cursor position.

       The spell checker examines all words in the text.  It then offers, in
       turn, each misspelled word for correction while highlighting it in the
       text.  Spell checking can be cancelled at any time.  Alternatively, pico
       will substitute for the default spell checking routine a routine defined
       by the SPELL environment variable.  The replacement routine should read
       standard input and write standard output.

       The file browser is offered as an option in the "Read File" and "Write
       Out" command prompts.  It is intended to help in searching for specific
       files and navigating directory hierarchies.  Filenames with sizes and
       names of directories in the current working directory are presented for
       selection.  The current working directory is displayed on the top line of
       the display while the list of available commands takes up the bottom two.
       Several basic file manipulation functions are supported:  file renaming,
       copying, and deletion.

       More specific help is available in pico's online help.

Options
       +n     Causes pico to be started with the cursor located n lines into the
              file. (Note: no space between "+" sign and number)

       -a     Display all files including those beginning with a period (.).

       -b     Enable the option to Replace text matches found using the "Where
              is" command. This now does nothing. Instead, the option is always
              turned on (as if the -b flag had been specified).

       -d     Rebind the "delete" key so the character the cursor is on is
              rubbed out rather than the character to its left.

       -e     Enable file name completion.

       -f     Use function keys for commands.  This option supported only in
              conjunction with UW Enhanced NCSA telnet.

       -h     List valid command line options.

       -j     Enable "Goto" command in the file browser.  This enables the
              command to permit explicitly telling pilot which directory to
              visit.

       -g     Enable "Show Cursor" mode in file browser.  Cause cursor to be
              positioned before the current selection rather than placed at the
              lower left of the display.

       -k     Causes "Cut Text" command to remove characters from the cursor
              position to the end of the line rather than remove the entire
              line.

       -m     Enable mouse functionality.  This only works when pico is run from
              within an X Window System "xterm" window.

       -nn    The -nn option enables new mail notification.  The n argument is
              optional, and specifies how often, in seconds, your mailbox is
              checked for new mail.  For example, -n60 causes pico to check for
              new mail once every minute.  The default interval is 180 seconds,
              while the minimum allowed is 30. (Note: no space between "n" and
              the number)

       -o dir Sets operating directory.  Only files within this directory are
              accessible.  Likewise, the file browser is limited to the
              specified directory subtree.

       -rn    Sets column used to limit the "Justify" command's right margin

       -s speller
              Specify an alternate program spell to use when spell checking.

       -t     Enable "tool" mode.  Intended for when pico is used as the editor
              within other tools (e.g., Elm, Pnews).  Pico will not prompt for
              save on exit, and will not rename the buffer during the "Write
              Out" command.

       -v     View the file only, disallowing any editing.

       -version
              Print Pico version and exit.

       -w     Disable word wrap (thus allow editing of long lines).

       -x     Disable keymenu at the bottom of the screen.

       -z     Enable ^Z suspension of pico.

       -p     Preserve the "start" and "stop" characters, typically Ctrl-Q and
              Ctrl-S, which are sometimes used in communications paths to
              control data flow between devices that operate at different
              speeds.

       -Q quotestr
              Set the quote string.  Especially useful when composing email,
              setting this allows the quote string to be checked for when
              Justifying paragraphs.  A common quote string is "> ".

       -W word_separators
              If characters listed here appear in the middle of a word
              surrounded by alphanumeric characters that word is split into two
              words. This is used by the Forward and Backward word commands and
              by the spell checker.

       -q     Termcap or terminfo definition for input escape sequences are used
              in preference to sequences defined by default.  This option is
              only available if pico was compiled with the TERMCAP_WINS define
              turned on.

       -setlocale_ctype
              Do setlocale(LC_CTYPE) if available. Default is to not do this
              setlocale.

       -no_setlocale_collate
              Do not do setlocale(LC_COLLATE). Default is to do this setlocale.

       Lastly, when a running pico is disconnected (i.e., receives a SIGHUP),
       pico will save the current work if needed before exiting.  Work is saved
       under the current filename with ".save" appended.  If the current work is
       unnamed, it is saved under the filename "pico.save".

Color Support
       If your terminal supports colors, Pico can be configured to color text.
       Users can configure the color of the text, the text in the key menu, the
       titlebar, messages and prompt in the status line. As an added feature
       Pico can also be used to configure the color of up to three different
       levels of quoted text, and the signature of an email message. This is
       useful when Pico is used as a tool (with the -t command line switch.)

       Pico can tell you the number of colors that your terminal supports, when
       started with the switch -color_codes. In addition Pico will print a table
       showing the numerical code of every color supported in that terminal. In
       order to configure colors, one must use these numerical codes. For
       example, 0 is for black, so in order to configure a black color, one must
       use its code, the number 0.

       In order to activate colors, one must use the option -ncolors with a
       numerical value indicating the number of colors that your terminal
       supports, for example, -ncolors 256 indicates that the user wishes to use
       a table of 256 colors.

       All options that control color, are four letter options. Their last two
       letters are either "fc" or "bc", indicating foreground color and
       bacground color, respectively. The first two letters indicate the type of
       text that is being configured, for example "nt" stands for normal text,
       so that -ntfc represents the color of the normal text, while -ntbc
       represents the color of the background of normal text. Here is a complete
       list of the color options supported by Pico.

       -color_code
              displays the number of colors supported by the terminal, and a
              table showing the association of colors and numerical codes

       -ncolors number
              activates color support in Pico, and tells Pico how many colors to
              use.  Depending on your terminal number could be 8, 16, or 256.

       -ntfc num
              specifies the number num of the color to be used to color normal
              text.

       -ntbc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background for normal
              text.

       -rtfc num
              specifies the number num of the color of reverse text. Default:
              same as background color of normal text (if specified.)

       -rtbc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of reverse
              text. Default: same as color of normal text (if specified.)

       -tbfc num
              specifies the number num of then color of text of the title bar.
              Default: same as foreground color of reverse text.

       -tbbc num
              specifies the number num of the color in the background of the
              title bar.

       -klfc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the text of the key
              label.

       -klbc num
              specifies the number num of the color in the background of the key
              label.

       -knfc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the text of the key name.

       -knbc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of the key
              name.

       -stfc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the text of the status
              line.

       -stbc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of the
              status line.

       -prfc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the text of a prompt.

       -prbc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of a
              prompt.

       -q1fc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the text of level one of
              quoted text.

       -q1bc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of level
              one of quoted text. If the option -q1bc is used, the default value
              of this option is the background color or normal text.

       -q2fc num
              specifies the number num of the color of text of level two of
              quoted text.

       -q2bc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of level
              two of quoted text. If the option -q1bc is used, the default value
              of this option is the background color or normal text.

       -q3fc num
              specifies the number num of the color of text of level three of
              quoted text.

       -sbfc num
              specifies the number num of the color of text of signature block
              text.

       -sbbc num
              specifies the number num of the color of the background of
              signature block text.

Bugs
       The manner in which lines longer than the display width are dealt is not
       immediately obvious.  Lines that continue beyond the edge of the display
       are indicated by a '$' character at the end of the line.  Long lines are
       scrolled horizontally as the cursor moves through them.

Files
       pico.save        Unnamed interrupted work saved here.
       *.save           Interrupted work on a named file is saved here.

Authors
       Michael Seibel <mikes@cac.washington.edu>
       Laurence Lundblade <lgl@cac.washington.edu>
       Pico was originally derived from MicroEmacs 3.6, by Dave G. Conroy.
       Copyright 1989-2008 by the University of Washington.

See Also
       alpine(1)
       Source distribution (part of the Alpine Message System):

       $Date: 2009-02-02 13:54:23 -0600 (Mon, 02 Feb 2009) $



