netlog(1)                    General Commands Manual                   netlog(1)

NAME
     netlog – Log summary of every UDP and TCP socket when the socket is closed.

SYNOPSIS
     netlog [-v] [-h] [-i interval] [-I iterations] [-t type] [-m mode]
            [-p process-name|pid] [-c] [-N] [-Z]

DESCRIPTION
     The netlog program logs a summary for each TCP, UDP and QUIC flow when the
     flow is closed. A header is printed once. The row items are separated by
     spaces.
     Address to hostname lookups are not performed. The -Z option allows flows
     that do not send or receive any data to not be listed.
     An experimental nettop style display may be requested via use of the -N
     option as the first option on the command line.

OPTIONS
     A list of flags and their descriptions:

     -v       Verbose output

     -h       Print command line usage information and exit.

     -i interval
              Report socket statistics periodically.

     -I iterations
              Used in combination with -i, will make netlog exit after the
              specified number of iterations.

     -t type  Specify the type of interface. By default, all interfaces will be
              monitored.  Multiple interface types may be specified.  The
              following types are supported:

              wifi     WiFi interfaces.

              wired    Wired interfaces.

              loopback
                       Loopback interfaces.

              awdl     Apple Wireless Direct Link interfaces.

              expensive
                       Interfaces marked as "expensive", for example via
                       hotspot.

              undefined
                       Cases where the underlying socket or flow is not
                       associated with an interface.

              external
                       The combination of all defined non-loopback interfaces.

     -m mode  Specify the mode.  By default, all TCP, UDP and QUIC flows will be
              monitored.

              tcp      Only TCP flows will be monitored.

              udp      Only UDP flows will be monitored.

              quic     Only QUIC flows will be monitored.

              conn     Instead of flows, NECP connections will be monitored.

              subflows
                       Only UDP sub-flows will be monitored.

              all      Instead of the default of all full flows, all flows plus
                       sub-flows plus NECP connections will be monitored.

     -p process-name|pid
              Select a process for display.  A numeric argument identifies a
              process by its pid.  Alternatively a process name may be given, in
              which case all processes with that name will be displayed.  The
              name must be an exact match for the name displayed by netlog,
              which may require that the name be truncated, for example
              launchd.develop instead of launchd.development.  This option may
              be repeated to select multiple processes.

     -c       Print details in comma-separated values (CSV) form.

     -N       Use the experimental curses output, in the general style of the
              nettop program.  This must be the first option.  Subsequent
              options are per nettop precedent rather than the ones defined
              here.  Use -N -h for online help.

     -Z       Avoid printing details if there was no data transfer on the flow.

