netusage(1)                  General Commands Manual                 netusage(1)

NAME
     netusage – Display traffic usage statistics about the network

SYNOPSIS
     netusage [--help]
     netusage commands [arguments ...]



DESCRIPTION
     The netusage program interfaces with symptomsd to display and manage
     network traffic usage statistics.

     As additional feature of this tool allows for looking up an application or
     process name using a Mach-O UUID or a PID.

NETWORK STATISTICS COMMANDS
     The following commands are used to provide different representations of
     network traffic usage statistics collected on the system.


     --all-traffic [-p] [-r] [-n name] [-s sortorder] [-d importfile] [-e
              exportfile] [--unitize] [--compact] [--interactive] [--interval
              seconds]
              Display a table listing the total ingress and egress network
              traffic usage for each application or process categorized by
              interface. A timestamp of when the first network traffic was
              observed is also shown. By default, only applications will be
              shown unless the -p flag is provided.


              -p       Show a list that includes the combination of applications
                       and processes.


              -r       Force a database refresh before showing the list.


              -n name  Only show the application or process matching name.


              -s sortorder
                       Sort the list according the following available sort
                       orders:


                       t        Sort by total network usage. (default)

                       c        Sort by cellular interface usage.

                       w        Sort by wi-fi interface usage.

                       i        Sort by wired interface usage.

                       a        Sort by awdl interface usage.

                       e        Sort by expensive interface usage.


              -d importfile
                       Show a traffic usage comparison between the current
                       values and the contents of the file at importfile.


              -e exportfile
                       Save the current traffic usage values into exportfile.


              --unitize
                       Show the table values in unitized format (eg. KB/MB/GB).


              --compact
                       When showing a traffic usage comparison, only list the
                       entries whose values have changed.


              --interactive
                       Show a traffic usage table that periodically refresh and
                       can be viewed interactively. When an update occurs, the
                       usage value for the application or process that generated
                       network traffic will appear emphasized. You can use the
                       following commands to interact with the table.


                       q        Quit

                       p        Toggles the values between showing raw bytes and
                                unitized format

                       s        Change the sort order of the columns

                       r        Redraw the screen

                       h        Show help

                       Arrow Keys
                                Scroll the list


              --interval seconds
                       Set the periodic refresh interval to the specified number
                       of seconds. The minimum value is 5 seconds, and the
                       default interval is 15 seconds. (Only valid in
                       interactive mode)


MANAGEMENT COMMANDS
     These commands are used to manage and reset the collected network traffic
     usage statistics.



     --reset-entry [-p] [-n name]
              Reset the network traffic usage statistics stored for a single
              entry. Use the -n flag (and optionally the -p flag) to specify the
              name of the entry.

              --unitize name
                       Specify the name of the application to reset the network
                       usage statistics.

              -p       Specify a process name instead of an application name.


     --reset-all
              Reset the network traffic usage statistics for all the stored
              entries.


OTHER COMMANDS
     These are optional utility commands that are available to look up
     applications or processes.


     --resolve-uuid uuid
              Resolve the given mach-O uuid into an application identifier.


     --resolve-pid pid
              Resolve the given pid into an application identifier.


