PAX(1)                       General Commands Manual                      PAX(1)

NAME
     pax – read and write file archives and copy directory hierarchies

SYNOPSIS
     pax [-0cdjnvzO] [-f archive] [-s replstr] ... [-U user] ... [-G group] ...
         [-T [from_date] [,to_date]] ... [pattern ...]
     pax -r [-0cdijknuvzDOYZ] [-f archive] [-o options] ... [-p string] ...
         [-s replstr] ... [-E limit] [-U user] ... [-G group] ... [-T
         [from_date] [,to_date]] ... [pattern ...]
     pax -w [-0dijtuvzHLOPX] [-b blocksize] [[-a] [-f archive]] [-x format]
         [-s replstr] ... [-o options] ... [-U user] ... [-G group] ...
         [-B bytes] [-T [from_date] [,to_date] [/[c][m]]] ... [file ...]
     pax -r -w [-0dijklntuvDHLOPXYZ] [-p string] ... [-s replstr] ... [-U user]
         ... [-G group] ... [-T [from_date] [,to_date] [/[c][m]]] ... [file ...]
         directory

DESCRIPTION
     The pax utility will read, write, and list the members of an archive file,
     and will copy directory hierarchies.  These operations are independent of
     the specific archive format, and support a wide variety of different
     archive formats.  A list of supported archive formats can be found under
     the description of the -x option.

     The presence of the -r and the -w options specifies which of the following
     functional modes pax will operate under: list, read, write, and copy.

     <none>  List.  Write to standard output a table of contents of the members
             of the archive file read from standard input, whose pathnames match
             the specified patterns.  The table of contents contains one
             filename per line and is written using single line buffering.

     -r      Read.  Extract the members of the archive file read from the
             standard input, with pathnames matching the specified patterns.
             The archive format and blocking is automatically determined on
             input.  When an extracted file is a directory, the entire file
             hierarchy rooted at that directory is extracted.  Extracted files
             are created either at absolute paths (those that begin with a /
             character) or relative to the current file hierarchy unless the -s
             option is used to remove leading slashes or add a relative path
             prefix.  Files being extracted to absolute paths may overwrite
             files outside of the current working directory, so care should be
             taken when extracting untrusted archives.  The setting of
             ownership, access and modification times, and file mode of the
             extracted files are discussed in more detail under the -p option.

     -w      Write.  Write an archive containing the file operands to standard
             output using the specified archive format.  When no file operands
             are specified, a list of files to copy with one per line is read
             from standard input.  When a file operand is also a directory, the
             entire file hierarchy rooted at that directory will be included.

     -r -w   Copy.  Copy the file operands to the destination directory.  When
             no file operands are specified, a list of files to copy with one
             per line is read from the standard input.  When a file operand is
             also a directory the entire file hierarchy rooted at that directory
             will be included.  The effect of the copy is as if the copied files
             were written to an archive file and then subsequently extracted,
             except that there may be hard links between the original and the
             copied files (see the -l option below).

             Warning: The destination directory must not be one of the file
             operands or a member of a file hierarchy rooted at one of the file
             operands.  The result of a copy under these conditions is
             unpredictable.

     While processing a damaged archive during a read or list operation, pax
     will attempt to recover from media defects and will search through the
     archive to locate and process the largest number of archive members
     possible (see the -E option for more details on error handling).

OPERANDS
     The directory operand specifies a destination directory pathname.  If the
     directory operand does not exist, or it is not writable by the user, or it
     is not of type directory, pax will exit with a non-zero exit status.

     The pattern operand is used to select one or more pathnames of archive
     members.  Archive members are selected using the pattern matching notation
     described by glob(3).  When the pattern operand is not supplied, all
     members of the archive will be selected.  When a pattern matches a
     directory, the entire file hierarchy rooted at that directory will be
     selected.  When a pattern operand does not select at least one archive
     member, pax will write these pattern operands in a diagnostic message to
     standard error and then exit with a non-zero exit status.

     The file operand specifies the pathname of a file to be copied or archived.
     When a file operand does not select at least one archive member, pax will
     write these file operand pathnames in a diagnostic message to standard
     error and then exit with a non-zero exit status.

OPTIONS
     The following options are supported:

     -r    Read an archive file from standard input and extract the specified
           files.  If any intermediate directories are needed in order to
           extract an archive member, these directories will be created as if
           mkdir(2) was called with the bitwise inclusive OR of S_IRWXU,
           S_IRWXG, and S_IRWXO as the mode argument.  When the selected archive
           format supports the specification of linked files and these files
           cannot be linked while the archive is being extracted, pax will write
           a diagnostic message to standard error and exit with a non-zero exit
           status at the completion of operation.

     -w    Write files to the standard output in the specified archive format.
           When no file operands are specified, standard input is read for a
           list of pathnames with one per line without any leading or trailing
           ⟨blanks⟩.

     -0    Use the NUL (‘\0’) character as a pathname terminator, instead of
           newline (‘\n’).  This applies only to the pathnames read from
           standard input in the write and copy modes, and to the pathnames
           written to standard output in list mode.  This option is expected to
           be used in concert with the -print0 function in find(1) or the -0
           flag in xargs(1).

     -a    Append files to the end of an archive that was previously written.
           If an archive format is not specified with a -x option, the format
           currently being used in the archive will be selected.  Any attempt to
           append to an archive in a format different from the format already
           used in the archive will cause pax to exit immediately with a non-
           zero exit status.  The blocking size used in the archive volume where
           writing starts will continue to be used for the remainder of that
           archive volume.

           Warning: Many storage devices are not able to support the operations
           necessary to perform an append operation.  Any attempt to append to
           an archive stored on such a device may damage the archive or have
           other unpredictable results.  Tape drives in particular are more
           likely to not support an append operation.  An archive stored in a
           regular file system file or on a disk device will usually support an
           append operation.

     -b blocksize
           When writing an archive, block the output at a positive decimal
           integer number of bytes per write to the archive file.  The blocksize
           must be a multiple of 512 bytes with a maximum of 64512 bytes.  A
           blocksize larger than 32256 bytes violates the POSIX standard and
           will not be portable to all systems.  A blocksize can end with k or b
           to specify multiplication by 1024 (1K) or 512, respectively.  A pair
           of blocksizes can be separated by x to indicate a product.  A
           specific archive device may impose additional restrictions on the
           size of blocking it will support.  When blocking is not specified,
           the default blocksize is dependent on the specific archive format
           being used (see the -x option).

     -c    Match all file or archive members except those specified by the
           pattern and file operands.

     -d    Cause files of type directory being copied or archived, or archive
           members of type directory being extracted, to match only the
           directory file or archive member and not the file hierarchy rooted at
           the directory.

     -f archive
           Specify archive as the pathname of the input or output archive,
           overriding the default standard input (for list and read) or standard
           output (for write).  A single archive may span multiple files and
           different archive devices.  When required, pax will prompt for the
           pathname of the file or device of the next volume in the archive.

     -i    Interactively rename files or archive members.  For each archive
           member matching a pattern operand or each file matching a file
           operand, pax will prompt to /dev/tty giving the name of the file, its
           file mode and its modification time.  The pax utility will then read
           a line from /dev/tty.  If this line is blank, the file or archive
           member is skipped.  If this line consists of a single period, the
           file or archive member is processed with no modification to its name.
           Otherwise, its name is replaced with the contents of the line.  The
           pax utility will immediately exit with a non-zero exit status if
           <EOF> is encountered when reading a response or if /dev/tty cannot be
           opened for reading and writing.

     -j    Use bzip2 to compress (decompress) the archive while writing
           (reading).  The bzip2 utility must be installed separately.
           Incompatible with -a.

     -k    Do not overwrite existing files.

     -l    Link files.  (The letter ell).  In the copy mode (-r -w), hard links
           are made between the source and destination file hierarchies whenever
           possible.

     -n    Select the first archive member that matches each pattern operand.
           No more than one archive member is matched for each pattern.  When
           members of type directory are matched, the file hierarchy rooted at
           that directory is also matched (unless -d is also specified).

     -o options
           Information to modify the algorithm for extracting or writing archive
           files which is specific to the archive format specified by -x.  In
           general, options take the form: name=value

           The following options are available for the old BSD tar format:

           nodir
           write_opt=nodir
                   When writing archives, omit the storage of directories.

     -p string
           Specify one or more file characteristic options (privileges).  The
           string option-argument is a string specifying file characteristics to
           be retained or discarded on extraction.  The string consists of the
           specification characters a, e, m, o, and p.  Multiple characteristics
           can be concatenated within the same string and multiple -p options
           can be specified.  The meaning of the specification characters are as
           follows:

           a   Do not preserve file access times.  By default, file access times
               are preserved whenever possible.

           e   ‘Preserve everything’, the user ID, group ID, file mode bits,
               file access time, and file modification time.  This is intended
               to be used by root, someone with all the appropriate privileges,
               in order to preserve all aspects of the files as they are
               recorded in the archive.  The e flag is the sum of the o and p
               flags.

           m   Do not preserve file modification times.  By default, file
               modification times are preserved whenever possible.

           o   Preserve the user ID and group ID.

           p   ‘Preserve’ the file mode bits.  This is intended to be used by a
               user with regular privileges who wants to preserve all aspects of
               the file other than the ownership.  The file times are preserved
               by default, but two other flags are offered to disable this and
               use the time of extraction instead.

           In the preceding list, ‘preserve’ indicates that an attribute stored
           in the archive is given to the extracted file, subject to the
           permissions of the invoking process.  Otherwise the attribute of the
           extracted file is determined as part of the normal file creation
           action.  If neither the e nor the o specification character is
           specified, or the user ID and group ID are not preserved for any
           reason, pax will not set the S_ISUID (setuid) and S_ISGID (setgid)
           bits of the file mode.  If the preservation of any of these items
           fails for any reason, pax will write a diagnostic message to standard
           error.  Failure to preserve these items will affect the final exit
           status, but will not cause the extracted file to be deleted.  If the
           file characteristic letters in any of the string option-arguments are
           duplicated or conflict with each other, the one(s) given last will
           take precedence.  For example, if
                 -p eme
           is specified, file modification times are still preserved.

           File flags set by chflags(1) are not understood by pax, however
           tar(1) and dump(8) will preserve these.

     -r    Read an archive file from standard input and extract the specified
           file operands.  If any intermediate directories are needed in order
           to extract an archive member, these directories will be created as if
           mkdir(2) was called with the bitwise inclusive OR of S_IRWXU,
           S_IRWXG, and S_IRWXO as the mode argument.  When the selected archive
           format supports the specification of linked files and these files
           cannot be linked while the archive is being extracted, pax will write
           a diagnostic message to standard error and exit with a non-zero exit
           status at the completion of operation.

     -s replstr
           Modify the file or archive member names specified by the pattern or
           file operands according to the substitution expression replstr, using
           the syntax of the ed(1) utility regular expressions.  file or pattern
           arguments may be given to restrict the list of archive members to
           those specified.

           The format of these regular expressions is:
                 /old/new/[gp]
           As in ed(1), old is a basic regular expression and new can contain an
           ampersand (&), \n (where n is a digit) back-references, or
           subexpression matching.  The old string may also contain <newline>
           characters.  Any non-null character can be used as a delimiter (/ is
           shown here).  Multiple -s expressions can be specified.  The
           expressions are applied in the order they are specified on the
           command line, terminating with the first successful substitution.
           The optional trailing g continues to apply the substitution
           expression to the pathname substring, which starts with the first
           character following the end of the last successful substitution.  The
           first unsuccessful substitution stops the operation of the g option.
           The optional trailing p will cause the final result of a successful
           substitution to be written to standard error in the following format:
                 <original pathname> >> <new pathname>
           File or archive member names that substitute to the empty string are
           not selected and will be skipped.

     -t    Reset the access times of any file or directory read or accessed by
           pax to be the same as they were before being read or accessed by pax.

     -u    Ignore files that are older (having a less recent file modification
           time) than a pre-existing file or archive member with the same name.
           During read, an archive member with the same name as a file in the
           file system will be extracted if the archive member is newer than the
           file.  During write, a file system member with the same name as an
           archive member will be written to the archive if it is newer than the
           archive member.  During copy, the file in the destination hierarchy
           is replaced by the file in the source hierarchy or by a link to the
           file in the source hierarchy if the file in the source hierarchy is
           newer.

     -v    During a list operation, produce a verbose table of contents using
           the format of the ls(1) utility with the -l option.  For pathnames
           representing a hard link to a previous member of the archive, the
           output has the format:
                 <ls -l listing> == <link name>
           For pathnames representing a symbolic link, the output has the
           format:
                 <ls -l listing> => <link name>
           Where <ls -l listing> is the output format specified by the ls(1)
           utility when used with the -l option.  Otherwise for all the other
           operational modes (read, write, and copy), pathnames are written and
           flushed to standard error without a trailing <newline> as soon as
           processing begins on that file or archive member.  The trailing
           <newline>, is not buffered, and is written only after the file has
           been read or written.

     -x format
           Specify the output archive format, with the default format being
           ustar.  The pax utility currently supports the following formats:

           cpio     The extended cpio interchange format specified in the IEEE
                    Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) standard.  The default blocksize for
                    this format is 5120 bytes.  Inode and device information
                    about a file (used for detecting file hard links by this
                    format) which may be truncated by this format is detected by
                    pax and is repaired.

           bcpio    The old binary cpio format.  The default blocksize for this
                    format is 5120 bytes.  This format is not very portable and
                    should not be used when other formats are available.  Inode
                    and device information about a file (used for detecting file
                    hard links by this format), which may be truncated by this
                    format, is detected by pax and is repaired.

           sv4cpio  The System V release 4 cpio.  The default blocksize for this
                    format is 5120 bytes.  Inode and device information about a
                    file (used for detecting file hard links by this format),
                    which may be truncated by this format, is detected by pax
                    and is repaired.

           sv4crc   The System V release 4 cpio with file crc checksums.  The
                    default blocksize for this format is 5120 bytes.  Inode and
                    device information about a file (used for detecting file
                    hard links by this format), which may be truncated by this
                    format, is detected by pax and is repaired.

           tar      The old BSD tar format as found in 4.3BSD.  The default
                    blocksize for this format is 10240 bytes.  Pathnames stored
                    by this format must be 100 characters or less in length.
                    Only regular files, hard links, soft links, and directories
                    will be archived (other file system types are not
                    supported).  For backwards compatibility with even older tar
                    formats, a -o option can be used when writing an archive to
                    omit the storage of directories.  This option takes the
                    form:
                          -o write_opt=nodir

           ustar    The extended tar interchange format specified in the IEEE
                    Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) standard.  The default blocksize for
                    this format is 10240 bytes.  Pathnames stored by this format
                    must be 255 characters or less in length.  The directory
                    part may be at most 155 characters and each path component
                    must be less than 100 characters.

           The pax utility will detect and report any file that it is unable to
           store or extract as the result of any specific archive format
           restrictions.  The individual archive formats may impose additional
           restrictions on use.  Typical archive format restrictions include
           (but are not limited to): file pathname length, file size, link
           pathname length and the type of the file.

     -z    Use gzip(1) to compress (decompress) the archive while writing
           (reading).  Incompatible with -a.

     -B bytes
           Limit the number of bytes written to a single archive volume to
           bytes.  The bytes limit can end with m, k, or b to specify
           multiplication by 1048576 (1M), 1024 (1K) or 512, respectively.  A
           pair of bytes limits can be separated by x to indicate a product.

           Note that the specified size is for the uncompressed pax image
           itself.  If the -z option is also used, the resulting file may
           contain fewer bytes, according to the compressibility of the archive
           contents.  See zip(1) if compressed volumes of predictable size are
           required.

           Warning: Only use this option when writing an archive to a device
           which supports an end of file read condition based on last (or
           largest) write offset (such as a regular file or a tape drive).  The
           use of this option with a floppy or hard disk is not recommended.

     -D    This option is the same as the -u option, except that the file inode
           change time is checked instead of the file modification time.  The
           file inode change time can be used to select files whose inode
           information (e.g., uid, gid, etc.) is newer than a copy of the file
           in the destination directory.

     -E limit
           Limit the number of consecutive read faults while trying to read a
           flawed archives to limit.  With a positive limit, pax will attempt to
           recover from an archive read error and will continue processing
           starting with the next file stored in the archive.  A limit of 0 will
           cause pax to stop operation after the first read error is detected on
           an archive volume.  A limit of NONE will cause pax to attempt to
           recover from read errors forever.  The default limit is a small
           positive number of retries.

           Warning: Using this option with NONE should be used with extreme
           caution as pax may get stuck in an infinite loop on a very badly
           flawed archive.

     -G group
           Select a file based on its group name, or when starting with a #, a
           numeric gid.  A '\' can be used to escape the #.  Multiple -G options
           may be supplied and checking stops with the first match.

     -H    Follow only command line symbolic links while performing a physical
           file system traversal.

     -L    Follow all symbolic links to perform a logical file system traversal.

     -O    Force the archive to be one volume.  If a volume ends prematurely,
           pax will not prompt for a new volume.  This option can be useful for
           automated tasks where error recovery cannot be performed by a human.

     -P    Do not follow symbolic links, perform a physical file system
           traversal.  This is the default mode.

     -T [from_date][,to_date][/[c][m]]
           Allow files to be selected based on a file modification or inode
           change time falling within a specified time range of from_date to
           to_date (the dates are inclusive).  If only a from_date is supplied,
           all files with a modification or inode change time equal to or
           younger are selected.  If only a to_date is supplied, all files with
           a modification or inode change time equal to or older will be
           selected.  When the from_date is equal to the to_date, only files
           with a modification or inode change time of exactly that time will be
           selected.

           When pax is in the write or copy mode, the optional trailing field
           [c][m] can be used to determine which file time (inode change, file
           modification or both) are used in the comparison.  If neither is
           specified, the default is to use file modification time only.  The m
           specifies the comparison of file modification time (the time when the
           file was last written).  The c specifies the comparison of inode
           change time (the time when the file inode was last changed; e.g., a
           change of owner, group, mode, etc).  When c and m are both specified,
           then the modification and inode change times are both compared.  The
           inode change time comparison is useful in selecting files whose
           attributes were recently changed or selecting files which were
           recently created and had their modification time reset to an older
           time (as what happens when a file is extracted from an archive and
           the modification time is preserved).  Time comparisons using both
           file times is useful when pax is used to create a time based
           incremental archive (only files that were changed during a specified
           time range will be archived).

           A time range is made up of six different fields and each field must
           contain two digits.  The format is:

                 [[[[[cc]yy]mm]dd]HH]MM[.SS]

           Where cc is the first two digits of the year (the century), yy is the
           last two digits of the year, the first mm is the month (from 01 to
           12), dd is the day of the month (from 01 to 31), HH is the hour of
           the day (from 00 to 23), MM is the minute (from 00 to 59), and SS is
           the seconds (from 00 to 59).  The minute field MM is required, while
           the other fields are optional and must be added in the following
           order: HH, dd, mm, yy, cc.  The ss field may be added independently
           of the other fields.  Time ranges are relative to the current time,
           so
                 -T 1234/cm
           would select all files with a modification or inode change time of
           12:34 PM today or later.  Multiple -T time range can be supplied and
           checking stops with the first match.

     -U user
           Select a file based on its user name, or when starting with a #, a
           numeric uid.  A '\' can be used to escape the #.  Multiple -U options
           may be supplied and checking stops with the first match.

     -X    When traversing the file hierarchy specified by a pathname, do not
           descend into directories that have a different device ID.  See the
           st_dev field as described in stat(2) for more information about
           device ID's.

     -Y    This option is the same as the -D option, except that the inode
           change time is checked using the pathname created after all the file
           name modifications have completed.

     -Z    This option is the same as the -u option, except that the
           modification time is checked using the pathname created after all the
           file name modifications have completed.

     --insecure
           Normally pax ignores filenames or symbolic links that contain “..” as
           a path component.  With this option, files that contain “..” can be
           processed.

     The options that operate on the names of files or archive members (-c, -i,
     -j, -n, -s, -u, -v, -D, -G, -T, -U, -Y, and -Z) interact as follows.

     When extracting files during a read operation, archive members are
     ‘selected’, based only on the user specified pattern operands as modified
     by the -c, -n, -u, -D, -G, -T, -U options.  Then any -s and -i options will
     modify in that order, the names of these selected files.  Then the -Y and
     -Z options will be applied based on the final pathname.  Finally, the -v
     option will write the names resulting from these modifications.

     When archiving files during a write operation, or copying files during a
     copy operation, archive members are ‘selected’, based only on the user
     specified pathnames as modified by the -n, -u, -D, -G, -T, and -U options
     (the -D option only applies during a copy operation).  Then any -s and -i
     options will modify in that order, the names of these selected files.  Then
     during a copy operation the -Y and the -Z options will be applied based on
     the final pathname.  Finally, the -v option will write the names resulting
     from these modifications.

     When one or both of the -u or -D options are specified along with the -n
     option, a file is not considered selected unless it is newer than the file
     to which it is compared.

ENVIRONMENT
     TMPDIR      Path in which to store temporary files.

EXIT STATUS
     The pax utility will exit with one of the following values:

     0   All files were processed successfully.

     1   An error occurred.

EXAMPLES
     The command:
           pax -w -f /dev/sa0 .
     copies the contents of the current directory to the device /dev/sa0.

     The command:
           pax -v -f filename
     gives the verbose table of contents for an archive stored in filename.

     The following commands:
           mkdir /tmp/to
           cd /tmp/from
           pax -rw . /tmp/to
     will copy the entire /tmp/from directory hierarchy to /tmp/to.

     The command:
           pax -r -s ',^//*usr//*,,' -f a.pax
     reads the archive a.pax, with all files rooted in ``/usr'' into the archive
     extracted relative to the current directory.

     The command:
           pax -rw -i . dest_dir
     can be used to interactively select the files to copy from the current
     directory to dest_dir.

     The command:
           pax -r -pe -U root -G bin -f a.pax
     will extract all files from the archive a.pax which are owned by root with
     group bin and will preserve all file permissions.

     The command:
           pax -r -w -v -Y -Z home /backup
     will update (and list) only those files in the destination directory
     /backup which are older (less recent inode change or file modification
     times) than files with the same name found in the source file tree home.

DIAGNOSTICS
     Whenever pax cannot create a file or a link when reading an archive or
     cannot find a file when writing an archive, or cannot preserve the user ID,
     group ID, or file mode when the -p option is specified, a diagnostic
     message is written to standard error and a non-zero exit status will be
     returned, but processing will continue.  In the case where pax cannot
     create a link to a file, pax will not create a second copy of the file.

     If the extraction of a file from an archive is prematurely terminated by a
     signal or error, pax may have only partially extracted a file the user
     wanted.  Additionally, the file modes of extracted files and directories
     may have incorrect file bits, and the modification and access times may be
     wrong.

     If the creation of an archive is prematurely terminated by a signal or
     error, pax may have only partially created the archive, which may violate
     the specific archive format specification.

     If while doing a copy, pax detects a file is about to overwrite itself, the
     file is not copied, a diagnostic message is written to standard error and
     when pax completes it will exit with a non-zero exit status.

SEE ALSO
     cpio(1), tar(1)

STANDARDS
     The pax utility is a superset of the IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”) standard.
     The options -0, -j, -z, -B, -D, -E, -G, -H, -L, -O, -P, -T, -U, -Y, -Z, the
     archive formats bcpio, sv4cpio, sv4crc, tar, and the flawed archive
     handling during list and read operations are extensions to the POSIX
     standard.

HISTORY
     The pax utility appeared in 4.4BSD.

AUTHORS
     Keith Muller at the University of California, San Diego

BUGS
     The pax utility does not recognize multibyte characters.

     File flags set by chflags(1) are not preserved by pax.  The BUGS section of
     chflags(1) has a list of utilities that are unaware of flags.

