PERLGOV(1)              Perl Programmers Reference Guide              PERLGOV(1)




NAME
       perlgov - Perl Rules of Governance

PREAMBLE
       We are forming a system of governance for development of the Perl
       programming language.

       The scope of governance includes the language definition, its
       implementation, its test suite, its documentation, and the policies and
       procedures by which it is developed and maintained.

       The system of governance includes definitions of the groups that will
       make decisions, the rules by which these groups are formed and changed,
       and the enumerated powers and constraints on the activities of these
       governing groups.

       In forming a system of governance, we seek to achieve the following
       goals:

       •   We want a system that is functional.  That means the governing groups
           may decide to undertake large changes, or they may decide to act
           conservatively, but they will act with intent and clear communication
           rather than fail to reach decisions when needed.

       •   We want a system that is trusted. That means that a reasonable
           contributor to Perl might disagree with decisions made by the
           governing groups, but will accept that they were made in good faith
           in consultation with relevant communities outside the governing
           groups.

       •   We want a system that is sustainable.  That means it has provisions
           to self-modify, including ways of adding new members to the governing
           groups, ways to survive members becoming inactive, and ways of
           amending the rules of governance themselves if needed.

       •   We want a system that is transparent.  That means that it will prefer
           policies that manage ordinary matters in public, and it will prefer
           secrecy in a limited number of situations.

       •   We want a system that is respectful.  That means that it will
           establish standards of civil discourse that allow for healthy
           disagreement but avoid rancor and hostility in the community for
           which it is responsible.

Mandate
       Perl language governance shall work to:

       •   Maintain the quality, stability, and continuity of the Perl language
           and interpreter

       •   Guide the evolution of the Perl language and interpreter

       •   Establish and oversee the policies, procedures, systems, and
           mechanisms that enable a community of contributors to the Perl
           language and interpreter

       •   Encourage discussion and consensus among contributors as preferential
           to formal decision making by governance groups

       •   Facilitate communication between contributors and external
           stakeholders in the broader Perl ecosystem

Definitions
       This document describes three roles involved in governance:

       "Core Team"
       "Steering Council"
       "Vote Administrator"

       A section on each follows.

   The Core Team
       The Core Team are a group of trusted volunteers involved in the ongoing
       development of the Perl language and interpreter.  They are not required
       to be language developers or committers.

       References to specific votes are explained in the "Rules for Voting"
       section.

       Powers

       In addition to their contributions to the Perl language, the Core Team
       sets the rules of Perl governance, decides who participates in what role
       in governance, and delegates substantial decision making power to the
       Steering Council.

       Specifically:

       •   They elect the Steering Council and have the power to remove Steering
           Council members.

       •   In concert with the Steering Council, they manage Core Team
           membership.

       •   In concert with the Steering Council, they have the power to modify
           the Perl Rules of Governance.

       The Core Team do not have any authority over parts of the Perl ecosystem
       unrelated to developing and releasing the language itself.  These
       include, but are not limited to:

       •   The Perl Foundation

       •   CPAN administration and CPAN authors

       •   perl.org, metacpan.org, and other community-maintained websites and
           services

       •   Perl conferences and events, except those organized directly by the
           Core Team

       •   Perl-related intellectual property legally owned by third-parties,
           except as allowed by applicable licenses or agreements

       Membership

       The initial Core Team members will be specified when this document is
       first ratified.

       Any Core Team member may nominate someone to be added to the Core Team by
       sending the nomination to the Steering Council.  The Steering Council
       must approve or reject the nomination.  If approved, the Steering Council
       will organize a Membership Change Vote to ratify the addition.

       Core Team members should demonstrate:

       •   A solid track record of being constructive and helpful

       •   Significant contributions to the project's goals, in any form

       •   Willingness to dedicate some time to improving Perl

       Contributions are not limited to code. Here is an incomplete list of
       areas where contributions may be considered for joining the Core Team:

       •   Working on community management and outreach

       •   Providing support on mailing lists, IRC, or other forums

       •   Triaging tickets

       •   Writing patches (code, docs, or tests)

       •   Reviewing patches (code, docs, or tests)

       •   Participating in design discussions

       •   Providing expertise in a particular domain (security, i18n, etc.)

       •   Managing Perl infrastructure (websites, CI, documentation, etc.)

       •   Maintaining significant projects in the Perl ecosystem

       •   Creating visual designs

       Core Team membership acknowledges sustained and valuable efforts that
       align well with the philosophy and the goals of the Perl project.

       Core Team members are expected to act as role models for the community
       and custodians of the project, on behalf of the community and all those
       who rely on Perl.

       Term

       Core Team members serve until they are removed.

       Removal

       Core Team Members may resign their position at any time.

       In exceptional circumstances, it may be necessary to remove someone from
       the Core Team against their will, such as for flagrant or repeated
       violations of a Code of Conduct.  Any Core Team member may send a recall
       request to the Steering Council naming the individual to be removed.  The
       Steering Council must approve or reject the recall request.  If approved,
       the Steering Council will organize a Membership Change vote to ratify the
       removal.

       If the removed member is also on the Steering Council, then they are
       removed from the Steering Council as well.

       Inactivity

       Core Team members who have stopped contributing are encouraged to declare
       themselves "inactive". Inactive members do not nominate or vote.
       Inactive members may declare themselves active at any time, except when a
       vote has been proposed and is not concluded.  Eligibility to nominate or
       vote will be determined by the Vote Administrator.

       To record and honor their contributions, inactive Core Team members will
       continue to be listed alongside active members.

       No Confidence in the Steering Council

       The Core Team may remove either a single Steering Council member or the
       entire Steering Council via a No Confidence Vote.

       A No Confidence Vote is triggered when a Core Team member calls for one
       publicly on an appropriate project communication channel, and another
       Core Team member seconds the proposal.

       If a No Confidence Vote removes all Steering Council members, the Vote
       Administrator of the No Confidence Vote will then administer an election
       to select a new Steering Council.

       Amending Perl Rules of Governance

       Any Core Team member may propose amending the Perl Rules of Governance by
       sending a proposal to the Steering Council.  The Steering Council must
       decide to approve or reject the proposal.  If approved, the Steering
       Council will administer an Amendment Vote.

       Rules for Voting

       Membership Change, Amendment, and No Confidence Votes require 2/3 of
       participating votes from Core Team members to pass.

       A Vote Administrator must be selected following the rules in the "Vote
       Administrator" section.

       The vote occurs in two steps:

       1.  The Vote Administrator describes the proposal being voted upon.  The
           Core Team then may discuss the matter in advance of voting.

       2.  Active Core Team members vote in favor or against the proposal.
           Voting is performed anonymously.

       For a Membership Change Vote, each phase will last one week.  For
       Amendment and No Confidence Votes, each phase will last two weeks.

   The Steering Council
       The Steering Council is a 3-person committee, elected by the Core Team.
       Candidates are not required to be members of the Core Team.  Non-member
       candidates are added to the Core Team if elected as if by a Membership
       Change Vote.

       References to specific elections are explained in the "Rules for
       Elections" section.

       Powers

       The Steering Council has broad authority to make decisions about the
       development of the Perl language, the interpreter, and all other
       components, systems and processes that result in new releases of the
       language interpreter.

       For example, it can:

       •   Manage the schedule and process for shipping new releases

       •   Establish procedures for proposing, discussing and deciding upon
           changes to the language

       •   Delegate power to individuals on or outside the Steering Council

       Decisions of the Steering Council will be made by majority vote of non-
       vacant seats on the council.

       The Steering Council should look for ways to use these powers as little
       as possible.  Instead of voting, it's better to seek consensus. Instead
       of ruling on individual cases, it's better to define standards and
       processes that apply to all cases.

       As with the Core Team, the Steering Council does not have any authority
       over parts of the Perl ecosystem unrelated to developing and releasing
       the language itself.

       The Steering Council does not have the power to modify the Perl Rules of
       Governance, except as provided in the section "Amending Perl Rules of
       Governance".

       Term

       A new Steering Council will be chosen by a Term Election within two weeks
       after each stable feature release (that is, change to "PERL_REVISION" or
       "PERL_VERSION") or after two years, whichever comes first. The council
       members will serve until the completion of the next Term Election unless
       they are removed.

       Removal

       Steering Council members may resign their position at any time.

       Whenever there are vacancies on the Steering Council, the council will
       organize a Special Election within one week after the vacancy occurs.  If
       the entire Steering Council is ever vacant, a Term Election will be held
       instead.

       If a Steering Council member is deceased, or drops out of touch and
       cannot be contacted for a month or longer, then the rest of the council
       may vote to declare their seat vacant.  If an absent member returns after
       such a declaration is made, they are not reinstated automatically, but
       may run in the Special Election to fill the vacancy.

       Otherwise, Steering Council members may only be removed before the end of
       their term through a No Confidence Vote by the Core Team.

       Rules for Elections

       Term and Special Election are ranked-choice votes to construct an ordered
       list of candidates to fill vacancies in the Steering Council.

       A Vote Administrator must be selected following the rules in the "Vote
       Administrator" section.

       Both Term and Special Elections occur in two stages:

       1.  Candidates advertise their interest in serving. Candidates must be
           nominated by an active Core Team member. Self-nominations are
           allowed.  Nominated candidates may share a statement about their
           candidacy with the Core Team.

       2.  Active Core Team Members vote by ranking all candidates.  Voting is
           performed anonymously.  After voting is complete, candidates are
           ranked using the Condorcet Internet Voting Service's proportional
           representation mode.  If a tie occurs, it may be resolved by mutual
           agreement among the tied candidates, or else the tie will be resolved
           through random selection by the Vote Administrator.

       Anyone voted off the Core Team is not eligible to be a candidate for
       Steering Council unless re-instated to the Core Team.

       For a Term Election, each phase will last two weeks.  At the end of the
       second phase, the top three ranked candidates are elected as the new
       Steering Council.

       For a Special Election, each phase will last one week.  At the end of the
       second phase, vacancies are filled from the ordered list of candidates
       until no vacancies remain.

       The election of the first Steering Council will be a Term Election.
       Ricardo Signes will be the Vote Administrator for the initial Term
       Election unless he is a candidate, in which case he will select a non-
       candidate administrator to replace him.

   The Vote Administrator
       Every election or vote requires a Vote Administrator who manages
       communication, collection of secret ballots, and all other necessary
       activities to complete the voting process.

       Unless otherwise specified, the Steering Council selects the Vote
       Administrator.

       A Vote Administrator must not be a member of the Steering Council nor a
       candidate or subject of the vote.  A Vote Administrator may be a member
       of the Core Team and, if so, may cast a vote while also serving as
       administrator.  If the Vote Administrator becomes a candidate during an
       election vote, they will appoint a non-candidate replacement.

       If the entire Steering Council is vacant or is the subject of a No
       Confidence Vote, then the Core Team will select a Vote Administrator by
       consensus.  If consensus cannot be reached within one week, the President
       of The Perl Foundation will select a Vote Administrator.

Core Team Members
       The current members of the Perl Core Team are:

       •   Abhijit Menon-Sen (inactive)

       •   Andy Dougherty (inactive)

       •   Chad Granum

       •   Chris 'BinGOs' Williams

       •   Craig Berry

       •   Dagfinn Ilmari Mannsaaker

       •   Dave Mitchell

       •   David Golden

       •   H. Merijn Brand

       •   Hugo van der Sanden

       •   James E Keenan

       •   Jan Dubois (inactive)

       •   Jesse Vincent (inactive)

       •   Karen Etheridge

       •   Karl Williamson

       •   Leon Timmermans

       •   Matthew Horsfall

       •   Max Maischein

       •   Neil Bowers

       •   Nicholas Clark

       •   Nicolas R.

       •   Paul "LeoNerd" Evans

       •   Philippe "BooK" Bruhat

       •   Ricardo Signes

       •   Steve Hay

       •   Stuart Mackintosh

       •   Todd Rinaldo

       •   Tony Cook



