pkgutil(1)                   General Commands Manual                  pkgutil(1)

NAME
     pkgutil – Query and manipulate Mac OS X Installer packages and receipts.

SYNOPSIS
     pkgutil [options] [commands]

DESCRIPTION
     pkgutil reads and manipulates Mac OS X Installer flat packages, and
     provides access to the “receipt” database used by the Installer. Options
     are processed first, and affect the operation of all commands. Multiple
     commands are performed sequentially in the given order.

     The files and directories where receipts are stored are subject to change.
     Always use pkgutil to query or modify them.

OPTIONS
     --help, -h
             A brief summary of commands and usage.

     --force, -f
             Don't ask for confirmation before performing a potentially
             destructive or ambiguous operation.

     --verbose, -v
             Output in a "human-readable" format with extra headers, footers,
             indentation, and other contextual information.

     --volume path
             Perform all operations on the specified volume or home directory.
             The root volume '/' will be used if unspecified.

     --edit-pkg package-id
             Specifies an existing receipt to be modified in-place by --learn.

     --only-files
             List only files (not directories) in --files listing.

     --only-dirs
             List only directories (not files) in --files listing.

     --regexp
             Try to match package-id arguments as a regular expression if an
             exact match isn't found. See egrep(1) and re_format(7) for syntax.

RECEIPT DATABASE COMMANDS
     --packages, --pkgs
             List all installed package IDs on the specified --volume.

     --pkgs-plist
             List all installed package IDs on the specified --volume in Mac OS
             X plist(5) format.

     --pkgs=REGEXP
             List all installed package IDs matching REGEXP on the specified
             --volume.  The equal sign (=) is required or the search string will
             be ignored and all package IDs will be returned.  Be mindful of
             escaping characters in both your shell and the regular expression.
             (Eg, 'pkgutil --pkgs=\\.D' searches for package IDs matching the
             literal '.D' after escaping the backslash from your shell and then
             the dot from the regex to make it literal.) Regular expressions are
             more complex than simple shell globbing. A dot (.) matches any
             character, while '*' matches zero or more of the previous
             character. See re_format(7) for a complete description of the
             syntax.

     --files package-id
             List all of the files installed under the package-id.

     --export-plist package-id
             Print all receipt information about the specified package-id in the
             standard Mac OS X plist(5) format.

     --pkg-info package-id
             Print extended information about the specified package-id.

     --pkg-info-plist package-id
             Print extended information about the specified package-id in Mac OS
             X plist(5) format.

     --forget package-id
             Discard all receipt data about package-id, but do not touch the
             installed files.  DO NOT use this command from an installer package
             script to fix broken package design.

     --learn path
             Update the ACLs of the given path in the receipt identified by
             --edit-pkg.  This affects subsequent repair operations on the
             package. This command cannot be used from package postinstall
             scripts, but if a postinstall script changes the ACLs on the
             installed files, the receipt is automatically be updated to reflect
             those changes.  This command will not update the filesystem
             permissions in the receipt.

     --pkg-groups package-id
             List all of the package groups this package-id is a member of.

     --groups
             List all of the package groups on the specified --volume.

     --groups-plist
             List all of the package groups on the specified --volume in Mac OS
             X plist(5) format.

     --group-pkgs group-id
             List all of the packages that are members of this group-id.

     --file-info path
             Show the metadata known about path.

     --file-info-plist path
             Show the metadata known about path in Mac OS X plist(5) format.

FILE COMMANDS
     --expand pkg-path dir-path
             Expand the flat package at pkg-path into a new directory specified
             by dir-path.

     --flatten dir-path pkg-path
             Flatten the dir-path into a new flat package created at pkg-path.
             The directory to be flattened must have the proper contents and
             layout for a flat package.  This is not intended as a substitute
             for pkgbuild(1).

     --bom path
             Extract any BOM files from the flat pkg at path into /tmp and
             return the filename(s).  Suggested use is as an argument to
             lsbom(8).  Eg, "lsbom `pkgutil --bom path`". Note that some flat
             package archives may contain no BOM, one BOM, or several BOMs.

     --payload-files path
             List the files archived within the payload of the uninstalled flat
             package(s) contained at path.  This should be equivalent to "lsbom
             -s `pkgutil --bom path`". Note that flat package archives may
             contain more than one package, and the destination location for the
             uninstalled package(s) is unknown to this command.

     --check-signature pkg-path
             Check the validity and trust of the signature on the package at
             pkg-path.  In addition to the status of the signature, the
             associated certificate chain will be shown.

SEE ALSO
     installer(8)
     pkgbuild(1)
     productbuild(1)

