POSTLOG(1)                   General Commands Manual                  POSTLOG(1)




NAME
       postlog - Postfix-compatible logging utility

SYNOPSIS
       postlog [-iv] [-c config_dir] [-p priority] [-t tag] [text...]

DESCRIPTION
       The postlog(1) command implements a Postfix-compatible logging interface
       for use in, for example, shell scripts.

       By default, postlog(1) logs the text given on the command line as one
       record. If no text is specified on the command line, postlog(1) reads
       from standard input and logs each input line as one record.

       Logging is sent to syslogd(8); when the standard error stream is
       connected to a terminal, logging is sent there as well.

       The following options are implemented:

       -c config_dir
              Read the main.cf configuration file in the named directory instead
              of the default configuration directory.

       -i     Include the process ID in the logging tag.

       -p priority (default: info)
              Specifies the logging severity: info, warn, error, fatal, or
              panic. With Postfix 3.1 and later, the program will pause for 1
              second after reporting a fatal or panic condition, just like other
              Postfix programs.

       -t tag Specifies the logging tag, that is, the identifying name that
              appears at the beginning of each logging record. A default tag is
              used when none is specified.

       -v     Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple -v options
              make the software increasingly verbose.

ENVIRONMENT

       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with the main.cf file.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The following main.cf parameters are especially relevant to this program.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
              configuration files.

       import_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The list of environment parameters that a privileged Postfix
              process will import from a non-Postfix parent process, or
              name=value environment overrides.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog records,
              so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(8), syslog daemon

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



