POSTMAP(1)                   General Commands Manual                  POSTMAP(1)




NAME
       postmap - Postfix lookup table management

SYNOPSIS
       postmap [-NbfhimnoprsuUvw] [-c config_dir] [-d key] [-q key]
               [file_type:]file_name ...

DESCRIPTION
       The postmap(1) command creates or queries one or more Postfix lookup
       tables, or updates an existing one. The input and output file formats are
       expected to be compatible with:

           makemap file_type file_name < file_name

       If the result files do not exist they will be created with the same group
       and other read permissions as their source file.

       While the table update is in progress, signal delivery is postponed, and
       an exclusive, advisory, lock is placed on the entire table, in order to
       avoid surprises in spectator processes.

INPUT FILE FORMAT
       The format of a lookup table input file is as follows:

       •      A table entry has the form

                   key whitespace value

       •      Empty lines and whitespace-only lines are ignored, as are lines
              whose first non-whitespace character is a `#'.

       •      A logical line starts with non-whitespace text. A line that starts
              with whitespace continues a logical line.

       The key and value are processed as is, except that surrounding white
       space is stripped off. Whitespace in lookup keys is supported as of
       Postfix 3.2.

       When the key specifies email address information, the localpart should be
       enclosed with double quotes if required by RFC 5322. For example, an
       address localpart that contains ";", or a localpart that starts or ends
       with ".".

       By default the lookup key is mapped to lowercase to make the lookups case
       insensitive; as of Postfix 2.3 this case folding happens only with tables
       whose lookup keys are fixed-case strings such as btree:, dbm: or hash:.
       With earlier versions, the lookup key is folded even with tables where a
       lookup field can match both upper and lower case text, such as regexp:
       and pcre:. This resulted in loss of information with $number
       substitutions.

COMMAND-LINE ARGUMENTS

       -b     Enable message body query mode. When reading lookup keys from
              standard input with "-q -", process the input as if it is an email
              message in RFC 5322 format.  Each line of body content becomes one
              lookup key.

              By default, the -b option starts generating lookup keys at the
              first non-header line, and stops when the end of the message is
              reached.  To simulate body_checks(5) processing, enable MIME
              parsing with -m. With this, the -b option generates no body-style
              lookup keys for attachment MIME headers and for attached message/*
              headers.

              NOTE: with "smtputf8_enable = yes", the -b option option disables
              UTF-8 syntax checks on query keys and lookup results. Specify the
              -U option to force UTF-8 syntax checks anyway.

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.

       -c config_dir
              Read the main.cf configuration file in the named directory instead
              of the default configuration directory.

       -d key Search the specified maps for key and remove one entry per map.
              The exit status is zero when the requested information was found.

              If a key value of - is specified, the program reads key values
              from the standard input stream. The exit status is zero when at
              least one of the requested keys was found.

       -f     Do not fold the lookup key to lower case while creating or
              querying a table.

              With Postfix version 2.3 and later, this option has no effect for
              regular expression tables. There, case folding is controlled by
              appending a flag to a pattern.

       -h     Enable message header query mode. When reading lookup keys from
              standard input with "-q -", process the input as if it is an email
              message in RFC 5322 format.  Each logical header line becomes one
              lookup key. A multi-line header becomes one lookup key with one or
              more embedded newline characters.

              By default, the -h option generates lookup keys until the first
              non-header line is reached.  To simulate header_checks(5)
              processing, enable MIME parsing with -m. With this, the -h option
              also generates header-style lookup keys for attachment MIME
              headers and for attached message/* headers.

              NOTE: with "smtputf8_enable = yes", the -b option option disables
              UTF-8 syntax checks on query keys and lookup results. Specify the
              -U option to force UTF-8 syntax checks anyway.

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.

       -i     Incremental mode. Read entries from standard input and do not
              truncate an existing database. By default, postmap(1) creates a
              new database from the entries in file_name.

       -m     Enable MIME parsing with "-b" and "-h".

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.6 and later.

       -N     Include the terminating null character that terminates lookup keys
              and values. By default, postmap(1) does whatever is the default
              for the host operating system.

       -n     Don't include the terminating null character that terminates
              lookup keys and values. By default, postmap(1) does whatever is
              the default for the host operating system.

       -o     Do not release root privileges when processing a non-root input
              file. By default, postmap(1) drops root privileges and runs as the
              source file owner instead.

       -p     Do not inherit the file access permissions from the input file
              when creating a new file.  Instead, create a new file with default
              access permissions (mode 0644).

       -q key Search the specified maps for key and write the first value found
              to the standard output stream. The exit status is zero when the
              requested information was found.

              If a key value of - is specified, the program reads key values
              from the standard input stream and writes one line of key value
              output for each key that was found. The exit status is zero when
              at least one of the requested keys was found.

       -r     When updating a table, do not complain about attempts to update
              existing entries, and make those updates anyway.

       -s     Retrieve all database elements, and write one line of key value
              output for each element. The elements are printed in database
              order, which is not necessarily the same as the original input
              order.

              This feature is available in Postfix version 2.2 and later, and is
              not available for all database types.

       -u     Disable UTF-8 support. UTF-8 support is enabled by default when
              "smtputf8_enable = yes". It requires that keys and values are
              valid UTF-8 strings.

       -U     With "smtputf8_enable = yes", force UTF-8 syntax checks with the
              -b and -h options.

       -v     Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes. Multiple -v options
              make the software increasingly verbose.

       -w     When updating a table, do not complain about attempts to update
              existing entries, and ignore those attempts.

       Arguments:

       file_type
              The database type. To find out what types are supported, use the
              "postconf -m" command.

              The postmap(1) command can query any supported file type, but it
              can create only the following file types:

              btree  The output file is a btree file, named file_name.db.  This
                     is available on systems with support for db databases.

              cdb    The output consists of one file, named file_name.cdb.  This
                     is available on systems with support for cdb databases.

              dbm    The output consists of two files, named file_name.pag and
                     file_name.dir.  This is available on systems with support
                     for dbm databases.

              hash   The output file is a hashed file, named file_name.db.  This
                     is available on systems with support for db databases.

              fail   A table that reliably fails all requests. The lookup table
                     name is used for logging only. This table exists to
                     simplify Postfix error tests.

              sdbm   The output consists of two files, named file_name.pag and
                     file_name.dir.  This is available on systems with support
                     for sdbm databases.

              When no file_type is specified, the software uses the database
              type specified via the default_database_type configuration
              parameter.

       file_name
              The name of the lookup table source file when rebuilding a
              database.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems are logged to the standard error stream and to syslogd(8).  No
       output means that no problems were detected. Duplicate entries are
       skipped and are flagged with a warning.

       postmap(1) terminates with zero exit status in case of success (including
       successful "postmap -q" lookup) and terminates with non-zero exit status
       in case of failure.

ENVIRONMENT

       MAIL_CONFIG
              Directory with Postfix configuration files.

       MAIL_VERBOSE
              Enable verbose logging for debugging purposes.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       The following main.cf parameters are especially relevant to this program.
       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       berkeley_db_create_buffer_size (16777216)
              The per-table I/O buffer size for programs that create Berkeley DB
              hash or btree tables.

       berkeley_db_read_buffer_size (131072)
              The per-table I/O buffer size for programs that read Berkeley DB
              hash or btree tables.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
              configuration files.

       default_database_type (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default database type for use in newaliases(1), postalias(1)
              and postmap(1) commands.

       import_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The list of environment parameters that a privileged Postfix
              process will import from a non-Postfix parent process, or
              name=value environment overrides.

       smtputf8_enable (yes)
              Enable preliminary SMTPUTF8 support for the protocols described in
              RFC 6531..6533.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog records,
              so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       postalias(1), create/update/query alias database
       postconf(1), supported database types
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(8), system logging

README FILES
       Use "postconf readme_directory" or "postconf html_directory" to locate
       this information.
       DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



