profiles(1)                  General Commands Manual                 profiles(1)

NAME
     profiles – Profiles Tool for macOS.

SYNOPSIS
     profiles verb [options]

DESCRIPTION
     profiles is used to handle various profile types on macOS.   Starting with
     macOS 11.0 (profiles tool 8.0 or later), this tool cannot be
         used to install configuration profiles.  You should add your profiles
     using the System Settings Profiles
         preference pane.    Additionally, startup profiles are no longer
     supported.

VERBS
     Each command verb is listed with its description and optional individual
     arguments.   Most commands use the -type option to determine which kind of
     profile should be used in the command.  For those commands, if no type is
     specified, the default will be to use the configuration profile type.

     help
                Shows abbreviated help

     list       -type profile_type -user user_name -output output_path
                List profiles for a user or when running as root, the device.

     show       -type profile_type -user user_name -output output_path -cached
                Show expanded information for profiles.   If the type is set to
                enrollment, this will instead show the current server DEP
                configuration.  Obtaining the enrollment information may be rate
                limited to 10 times every 23 hours, at which point it will try
                to display the information from the local cache.  Should this
                occur, a note will be displayed with the enrollment information.
                If the -cached option is set, the enrollment information will
                only be obtained from the local cache.

     remove     -type profile_type -user user_name -identifier identifier -uuid
                uuid -path file_path -forced -all
                Remove profiles. Attempting to remove a configuration profile
                requring a removal password without the correct password will
                fail.

     status     -type profile_type
                Display status of the profiles installed on this client.   When
                displaying the enrollment type status, if the MDM enrollment was
                user approved, the status output will show "(User Approved)".

     sync       -type configuration
                For configuration profiles, synchronize current installed set of
                profiles with the local users and remove any configuration
                profiles that belong to users that no longer exist on this
                computer.

     renew      -type profile_type -identifier identifier -output output_path
                For configuration profiles, renews any certificates for the
                specified profile.  For Device Enrollment Program (DEP)
                enrollments, retry to obtain the device enrollment
                configuration, and re-enable the user notification if enrollment
                wasn't completed.   With enrollments, this call may be rate
                limited to 10 times every 23 hours, though it should try to
                enroll with cached information if it is available.

     validate   -type profile_type -path file_path
                For provisioning profiles, validate the provisioning profile
                located at the file_path.  For enrollments, re-validate the
                installed DEP server information and update any local
                information, displaying any major changes.  If this information
                is different from the current enrolled server, this will not
                unenroll the client from the current server.  This call may be
                rate limited to 10 times every 23 hours.

     version
                Displays current tool version.

OPTIONS
     -type profile_type
             The profile_type can be one of either: "configuration",
             "provisioning", "bootstraptoken", or "enrollment" (DEP).  If a
             command requires a profile type and none is specified,
             "configuration" will be used.

     -path file_path
             A file path or "-" to represent stdout.   When used by the remove
             command for startup profiles, this should only contain the file
             name of the profile.

     -user user_name
             An OD short user name.   In most cases if no user was specified,
             then the current user will be used.   If no user option was
             specified and the process runs as root, the computer/device
             profiles will be used in the command.

     -uuid profile_uuid
             A canonical form UUID to specify a profile's PayloadUUID, such as
             5A15247B-899C-474D-B1D7-DBD82BDE5684.   Only used by the remove
             provisioning profile command.

     -identifier profile_identifier
             A profile identifier (PayloadIdentifier) to specify a profile.

     -output output_path
             The output path location.  The output_path argument must be
             specified to use this option, Use 'stdout' to send this informaton
             to the console.  File output will be written as an XML plist file,
             or you can use 'stdout-xml' to write XML to the console.  The
             toplevel key of the dictionary will contain either the user name,
             or _computerLevel for device or provisioning profile information.

     -password password
             An optional password used when removing a configuration profile
             which requires the password removal option.

     -forced
             This will prevent confirmation requests, and when trying to remove
             all configuration profles for a user, it will ignore any errors
             during removal.

     -all    For configuration profiles, when running as root, the use of this
             option with the list or show commands will display all profiles
             installed on the system.   When removing profiles, using this
             option will remove all profiles for that user (or device).

     -cached
             A flag to indicate that information should only be obtained from
             the local cache.  This is currently used for the show command's
             enrollment option.

     -verbose
             Display additional information.

PROFILE TYPES
     configuration
             A configuration profile.

     provisioning
             A provisioning profile.

     enrollment
             A device enrollment program (DEP) or mobile device management (MDM)
             enrollment profile or feature.

     bootstraptoken
             Bootstrap Token options.   Requires MDM supervised client.

EXAMPLES
     profiles remove -path /profiles/testfile2.mobileconfig
              Removes the configuration profile file
              '/profiles/testfile2.mobileconfig' into the current user.

     profiles list -type provisioning
              Displays a list of installed provisioning profiles.

     profiles list -all
              When running as root, this will list all configuration profiles on
              the system.

     profiles show
              Displays extended information for installed configuration profiles
              for the current user.

     profiles status -type startup
              Displays information on whether or not startup profiles are set
              up.

     profiles remove -identifier com.example.profile1 -password pass
              Removes any installed profiles with the identifier
              com.example.profile1 in the current user and using a removal
              password of 'pass'.

     profiles show -type enrollment
              Displays the current DEP configuration information.

     profiles renew -type enrollment
              Re-enables the DEP user notification enrollment messages.

     profiles install -type bootstraptoken
              Creates or updates the Bootstrap Token APFS record and escrows the
              information to the server.

     profiles show -type enrollment -cached
              Displays the cached information of an existing DEP enrollment
              configuration.

SEE ALSO
     profiles.old(1)

