SDIFF(1)                     General Commands Manual                    SDIFF(1)

NAME
     sdiff – side-by-side diff

SYNOPSIS
     sdiff [-abdilstHW] [-I regexp] [-o outfile] [-w width] file1 file2

DESCRIPTION
     sdiff displays two files side by side, with any differences between the two
     highlighted as follows: new lines are marked with ‘>’; deleted lines are
     marked with ‘<’; and changed lines are marked with ‘|’.

     sdiff can also be used to interactively merge two files, prompting at each
     set of differences.  See the -o option for an explanation.

     The options are:

     -l --left-column
             Only print the left column for identical lines.

     -o --output outfile
             Interactively merge file1 and file2 into outfile.  In this mode,
             the user is prompted for each set of differences.  See EDITOR and
             VISUAL, below, for details of which editor, if any, is invoked.

             The commands are as follows:

             l | 1   Choose left set of diffs.

             r | 2   Choose right set of diffs.

             s       Silent mode – identical lines are not printed.

             v       Verbose mode – identical lines are printed.

             e       Start editing an empty file, which will be merged into
                     outfile upon exiting the editor.

             e l     Start editing file with left set of diffs.

             e r     Start editing file with right set of diffs.

             e b     Start editing file with both sets of diffs.

             q       Quit sdiff.

     -s --suppress-common-lines
             Skip identical lines.

     -w --width width
             Print a maximum of width characters on each line.  The default is
             130 characters.

     Options passed to diff(1) are:

     -a --text
             Treat file1 and file2 as text files.

     -b --ignore-space-change
             Ignore trailing blank spaces.

     -d --minimal
             Minimize diff size.

     -I --ignore-matching-lines regexp
             Ignore line changes matching regexp.  All lines in the change must
             match regexp for the change to be ignored.

     -i --ignore-case
             Do a case-insensitive comparison.

     -t --expand-tabs
             Expand tabs to spaces.

     -W --ignore-all-space
             Ignore all spaces.

     -B --ignore-blank-lines
             Ignore blank lines.

     -E --ignore-tab-expansion
             Treat tabs and eight spaces as the same.

     -t --ignore-tabs
             Ignore tabs.

     -H --speed-large-files
             Assume scattered small changes in a large file.

     --ignore-file-name-case
             Ignore the case of file names.

     --no-ignore-file-name-case
             Do not ignore file name case.

     --strip-trailing-cr
             Skip identical lines.

     --tabsize NUM
             Change the size of tabs (default is 8.)

     --diff-program PROGRAM
             Use PROGRAM to compare files.

ENVIRONMENT
     EDITOR, VISUAL
             Specifies an editor to use with the -o option.  If both EDITOR and
             VISUAL are set, VISUAL takes precedence.  If neither EDITOR nor
             VISUAL are set, the default is vi(1).

     TMPDIR  Specifies a directory for temporary files to be created.  The
             default is /tmp.

SEE ALSO
     cmp(1), diff(1), diff3(1), vi(1), re_format(7)

AUTHORS
     sdiff was written from scratch for the public domain by Ray Lai
     ⟨ray@cyth.net⟩.

CAVEATS
     Tabs are treated as anywhere from one to eight characters wide, depending
     on the current column.  Terminals that treat tabs as eight characters wide
     will look best.

