SHAZAM(1)                    General Commands Manual                   SHAZAM(1)



NAME
     shazam – A utility for ShazamKit


SYNOPSIS
     shazam <subcommand> [--help]



DESCRIPTION
     The shazam utility offers commands for creating signatures as well as
     processing custom catalogs to build better audio experiences with
     ShazamKit. Current operations supported for a custom catalog include:

     -   Creating a custom catalog from a signature asset file and csv of
         metadata.

     -   Updating an existing custom catalog with a signature asset file and csv
         of metadata.

     -   Exporting the signatures and meta data contents of a custom catalog
         file to disk.

     -   Removing a signature and/or media item entry from a custom catalog
         file.

     -   Displaying the contents of an existing custom catalog file.

     The latest ShazamKit documentation can be viewed at
     https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit.


SHAZAM COMMANDS
     The commands supported by shazam are divided into Signature and Custom
     Catalog commands.


   Signature Commands


     shazam signature
             Generate a signature file from a media input. See
             shazam-signature(1) for more info.


   Custom Catalog Commands


     shazam custom-catalog create
             Generate a custom catalog file from a signature asset file and a
             media items csv file. See shazam-custom-catalog-create(1) for more
             information.


     shazam custom-catalog display
             Display the contents of a custom catalog file. See
             shazam-custom-catalog-display(1) for more information.


     shazam custom-catalog update
             Update an existing custom catalog file with a signature asset file
             and a media items csv file. See shazam-custom-catalog-update(1) for
             more information.


     shazam custom-catalog export
             Export the contents of a custom catalog file to disk. See
             shazam-custom-catalog-export(1) for more information.


     shazam custom-catalog remove
             Remove a signature and/or media item entry from a custom catalog
             file. See shazam-custom-catalog-remove(1) for more information.


OPTIONS
     -h, --help
             Show help information about the command.


SEE ALSO
     shazam-signature(1), shazam-custom-catalog-create(1),
     shazam-custom-catalog-update(1), shazam-custom-catalog-export(1),
     shazam-custom-catalog-display(1), shazam-custom-catalog-remove(1)


NOTES
     1.   ShazamKit Documentation
          https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit

