SHAZAM-CUSTOM-CATALOG-REMOVE(1)                          General Commands Manual



NAME
     shazam custom-catalog remove – Remove an entry from a custom catalog file.


SYNOPSIS
     shazam custom-catalog remove [--input input] [--signature-id signature-id]
                                  [--media-item-ids media-item-ids]
                                  [--output output]



DESCRIPTION
     Use this command to remove signature entries from a custom catalog file.
     Media items associated with a signature file can also be removed from a
     custom catalog with this command. Removal is done with unique identifiers
     of the signatures and media items in the custom catalog. The IDs of
     signatures and media items in a custom catalog file can be obtained by
     running the display command on the custom catalog file.


OPTIONS
     -i,--input input
             Path to an existing custom catalog file to remove a signature
             and/or media item entry.


     -m,--media-item-ids media-item-ids
             Comma separated list of media item IDs associated with a signature
             in a custom catalog. Use the display command to display the IDs of
             media items associated with a signature in a custom catalog. See
             shazam-custom-catalog-display(1) for more information.


     -o,--output output
             Path to save a new custom catalog file. If this is a directory a
             new custom catalog file is created in that directory with the same
             name as the custom catalog file at input.


     -s,--signature-id signature-id
             Unique identifier of a signature in a custom catalog. Use the
             display command to display the ID of a signature in a custom
             catalog. See shazam-custom-catalog-display(1) for more information.


SEE ALSO
     shazam-custom-catalog-display(1), shazam-custom-catalog-export(1)


NOTES
     1.   ShazamKit Documentation
          https://developer.apple.com/shazamkit

