SIRITTS(1)                   General Commands Manual                  SIRITTS(1)

NAME
     siritts – Command line interface to Siri Text to Speech services

SYNOPSIS
     siritts subcommand [options]

DESCRIPTION
     The siritts utility provides access to a variety of services related to the
     Siri Text to Speech system, and, to a limited extent, Apple's other Text-
     to-Speech engines (MacinTalk, Polyglot, Gryphon).

SYNTHESIS
     siritts speak [--text | -t] [--language | -l] [--name | -n] -...
             Speak a text with the named voice and/or the specified language.

             -l, --language
                     language

             -t, --text
                     text

             -n, --name
                     voice name, e.g. nora

             -p, --private
                     Indicate if this request is privacy sensitive. When set,
                     only device synthesis will be used. Otherwise, synthesis is
                     allowed to happen on server side.

             -o, --output-file
                     If set, audio will be written to the output file instead of
                     being played loud.


ASSET MANAGEMENT
     The siritts asset subcommand manages voice and language resource assets,
     providing a variety of second level subcommands, each with their own set of
     options (as well as some COMMON ASSET OPTIONS discussed below):

     siritts asset list [-v] [--nonlocal | -a] [--tab] asset ...
             List asset(s) matching criteria as described in ASSET SELECTION.

             --nonlocal
                     By default we list locally available assets only. With this
                     option, lists assets that are not locally available.

             -a, --all
                     lists all assets, regardless of availability.

             --tab   by default, output is formatted in aligned columns, with
                     this option, output in tab separated columns instead, for
                     ease of machine and screen reader processing.

     siritts asset describe [-v] [--nonlocal | -a | -p] asset ...
             Print verbose information for asset(s) matching criteria as
             described in ASSET SELECTION.

             --nonlocal
                     By default we list locally available assets only. With this
                     option, lists assets that are not locally available.

             -a, --all
                     lists all assets, regardless of availability.

             -p, --path
                     only print path to asset bundle. This option only makes
                     sense for locally available assets.

     siritts asset download [-v] [--clobber] asset ...
             Download nonlocal asset(s) matching criteria as described in ASSET
             SELECTION.

             --clobber
                     Allow more than 3 assets to be downloaded at once.

     siritts asset purge [-v] [--clobber] [--immediately] asset ...
             Purge local asset(s) matching criteria as described in ASSET
             SELECTION.

             --clobber
                     Allow more than 3 assets to be purged at once.

             --immediately
                     Recover space immediately instead of leaving the decision
                     to the OS (a distinction mainly relevant to for Turi Trial
                     assets).

     siritts asset serve [-r root-directory] [-p port | -]
             Create an asset server (operating a regular HTTP protocol), serving
             previously staged assets.

             -r root-directory, --root root-directory
                     Specifies the directory containing the assets. Defaults to
                     a temporary directory.

             --stdio
                     Listens for requests on standard input.

             -p port, --port port
                     Listens to the specified port. Defaults to listening on a
                     randomly chosen port.

             On the machine on which the server runs, this will also temporarily
             set the server URLs of the assets present in root-directory to the
             listening address, and will restore the URLs to their default
             setting if siritts is quit with SIGINT (Control-C). If you quit
             with any other method, you'll have to manually restore with

                   sudo defaults delete com.apple.MobileAssets

             If you want to connect from a different machine, follow the
             instructions printed by the command.

     siritts asset set-server (--url server-url | --production | --livability |
             --staging | --reset) [--source source] asset ...
             Override the asset server to use for the specified assets (or all
             assets if omitted).

             --url server-url
                     Use an explicitly defined server URL (e.g. for a local
                     mirror).  server-url can use some shortcuts such as
                     livability/AzulE or staging/Speedwagon9M5494.

             --production
                     Use production asset server.

             --livability
                     Use livability asset server.

             --staging
                     Use staging asset server.

             --reset
                     Reset to default asset server.

             -s source, --source source
                     Specify the download source (mobile or trial)

     siritts asset show-server [--verbose] [--source source] asset ...
             Show the asset server(s) currently used for the specified assets
             (or all assets if omitted).

             -s source, --source source
                     Specify the download source (mobile or trial)

             -v, --verbose
                     List full URLs for production, livability, and staging
                     servers.

     siritts asset stage [-o root-directory] path ...
             Prepare assets to be served by compressing them, computing hashes
             for them, and compressing them.

             -o root-directory, --output root-directory
                     Specify the directory in which the assets are staged.
                     Defaults to the same temporary directory used by siritts
                     serve.

             path ...
                     Directories of original assets. Each asset type should be
                     represented by only one path argument.

COMMON ASSET OPTIONS
     -v, --verbose
             By default, siritts suppresses the output that e.g. the MobileAsset
             framework prints to the console. If this option is given, this
             output is not suppressed.  Many commands also print further
             diagnostics if this option is given.

ASSET SELECTION
     The list, download, and purge subcommands of siritts require specifying one
     or several assets to apply to. This is done with the following criteria:

     -n name(s), --name name(s)
             Specify the name(s) we're interested in. This argument can take
             glob patterns.

     -L language(s), --language language(s)
             Specify the language(s) we're interested in. This argument may be
             given multiple times, or languages can be specified as a comma
             separated list.

     --male, --female, --neutral, --unspecified
             Specify the gender(s) we're interested in.

     -t technology(s), --technology technology(s)
             Specify the technology(s) we're interested in among

             vocalizer

             custom

             macintalk

             gryphon

             neural

     -q quality(s), --quality quality(s)
             Specify the quality(s) we're interested in among

             compact

             premium

             premiumhigh

             beta

     -1, --best
             Only use the top match among the assets found.

     --obsolete
             By default, we only list the newest version of an asset. With this
             option, we list obsolete versions instead.

     -s source(s), --source source(s)
             Specifies the asset source(s) of interest among

             legacy  macOS voices that were preinstalled or downloaded using
                     software update.

             mobile  Assets downloaded using Mobile Assets.

             trial   Assets downloaded using Turi Trial.

             adhoc   Assets installed on the device for testing purposes.

             preinstalled
                     Voices preinstalled on HomePods for initial setup.

     gryphon, custom, macintalk, combined, vocalizer, resources, asset-id
             Specify the asset type(s) to use.

     voices  Use all voice asset types (this is the default).

     all     Use all predefined asset types (voices and resources).

EXIT STATUS
     The siritts utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     siritts speak -n Aaron --text "Mr. Watson - Come here - I want to see you."

     To run a temporary asset server serving VoiceResources from a checkout of
     the git repo, run:

           siritts asset stage ~/Work/VoiceServicesVoiceResource
           siritts asset serve

SEE ALSO
     assettool(1)

STANDARDS
     You're kidding, right?

