SNQUOTA(1)                   General Commands Manual                  SNQUOTA(1)



NAME
       snquota - Xsan Quota Configuration Utility

SYNOPSIS
       snquota {-F_volume_name|-P_path} action [options]

DESCRIPTION
       The snquota command manipulates the quota system in the Xsan volume.

       The quota system provides a means for limiting the amount of disk storage
       consumed on a per user or per group basis across an entire file system or
       within a designated directory hierarchy.  Quota limits apply to the space
       consumed by disk-block allocations for a user or group, which is not
       equal to the sum of their file sizes.  Disk-block allocations can be less
       than the file size if the file is sparse, or more if the file system has
       allocated extra sequential blocks for the efficiency of anticipated
       future writes.

       There are three types of quotas: user quotas, group quotas, and directory
       quotas.  User and group quotas limit the number of volume blocks that can
       be allocated by the user or group on which the limit is placed.  When
       quotas are on, the total allocated volume space of all users and groups
       that own files in the volume are automatically kept.

       Directory quotas are a little different.  The system does not
       automatically keep track of the usage for each directory.  The snquota
       command allows directories to be turned into the root of a Directory
       Quota Name Space (DQNS).  Then, the number and size of all files in the
       directory and all its subdirectories are tracked and (optionally)
       limited.

       For all quota types, limits and usage values only apply to regular files,
       not directories, symlinks, or special device files

       Each quota entity has two limits associated with it.  These are the hard
       limit and the soft limit.

       The hard limit is the absolute limit which volume space usage should not
       exceed.  Any time the total allocated space is at or over the hard limit,
       all further allocations or write requests by the offending user or group
       will be denied.

       The soft limit is a lesser limit.  When the user exceeds this limit (but
       not the hard limit), allocations are still permitted for a while, but a
       warning message will be written to the logs.  (View the messages with
       Console.app or the dmesg command.)  When the soft limit has been overrun
       for longer than the grace period, the soft limit becomes a hard limit and
       any further allocations or write requests are denied.  When the usage
       again falls below the soft limit, allocation requests will again be
       serviced.

       Previous versions of snquota required all three of the limit values
       (hard, soft, and grace) to be set or all three to be unset.  This version
       relaxes that somewhat.  It is now possible to specify just a hard limit
       without a soft and grace limit.  It's also possible to set a soft limit
       and grace period without a hard limit.  It's also possible to specify a
       soft limit without any grace period (such a limit warns periodically, but
       never prevents allocation).  It's still not possible to specify a grace
       period without a soft limit. Although all three values (-h, -s, -t) still
       need to be on the command line, you can set the limits that should not be
       enforced to zero.

       For performance reasons related to the distributed nature of Xsan, quota
       overruns are not only possible but likely.  The overrun size depends upon
       a number of factors including the size of the allocation request(s) at
       the time of the quota overrun.

       Some versions of snquota support setting default limits for the various
       types of quotas.  For example, you can set a default hard limit, soft
       limit, and grace period for all users.  After doing that, any new user
       created will inherit those limits.  Note that setting default limits will
       not change the limits of existing quota entities.  Use the -0 option and
       either "-u default", "-g default", "-d default", or "-fd default".  See
       the examples section.

       When working with Directory Quotas, the specified volume must be mounted
       on the node running snquota.

       Limits are not enforced against super-user accounts.

DIRECTORY QUOTA NAME SPACES
       DQNSs are created by either of two actions, -C or -M.  They have
       different performance trade-offs and which one to use depends on the
       situation at hand.

       The -C action creates a DQNS whose usage values (the amount of disk space
       and the number of files) are already initialized to the correct value.
       In order to initialize them, snquota must walk the directory tree under
       the root of the DQNS and tally up how much disk space is used.  For big
       directory trees, this process can take a long time.  Any modifications to
       the files and directories in the DQNS will be stalled until this walk is
       complete.

       The -M action quickly creates a DQNS whose usage values are zero.  As
       files are created in the DQNS, the usage value will increase, but will
       never count the files that were present in the directory when it was
       created.  In order to initialize the DQNS so the values are correct, the
       quota database must be rebuild using the -R action.  A rebuild runs much
       faster than a file-tree walk on a per-inode basis, but it must look at
       all of the inodes in the volume.  When the rebuild is running,
       modifications to the volume will be stalled until the rebuild is
       complete.

       So, when creating a DQNS that is believed to contain only a small
       percentage of the inodes in the volume, use -C.  When creating a DQNS (or
       many DQNSs) that use a large percentage of the files, use -M.

       A typical situation where -M would be useful is converting an existing
       volume to use directory quotas.  First every directory which needs to be
       a DQNS root is marked with a call to "snquota -M".  Then, all of the
       DQNSs are initialized with one call to "snquota -R".

       When in doubt, use -C.

       Nesting of DQNSs is not allowed.  This means that a DQNS may not be a
       subdirectory of another DQNS.

       Directories can not be renamed across DQNS boundaries.  Also, all hard
       links to an inode must be within the same DQNS.  Attempts to rename
       directories/files or create hard links that would violate this rule will
       result in a EXDEV being returned.

       If a directory tree contains inodes with hard links outside of the tree,
       an attempt to convert the tree into a DQNS via the -C action on the tree
       will result in an error.  An attempt to convert the tree into a DQNS via
       the -M and -R actions will result in an error during the -R action.

QUOTAS IN MIXED OS ENVIRONMENTS
       The user and groups names specified in -u and -g represent underlying
       identifiers that are determined by the OS type of the MDC.

       On a Linux or Xsan MDC, those identifiers are the classic UNIX User
       IDentifier (UID) and Group IDentifier (GID).  When a UNIX client (Linux,
       MacOS, Solaris, etc) creates a file, it passes the user's UID and GID to
       the MDC.  Those IDs are attached to the file and are used by the quota
       subsystem.  When a Windows client creates a file, it passes a UID and GID
       it gets from one of three places:

       1.     If the Active Directory entry for the user has UNIX IDs associated
              with it, those are used.  The behavior at this point is just like
              UNIX client.  The administrator can set the IDs for a user via the
              AD configuration tool under the "UNIX Attributes" tab.  This tab
              is part of the "Identity Management for UNIX" subsystem.

       2.     If the user doesn't have UNIX attributes, then the user and group
              "nobody" IDs from the file system configuration file are used.

       3.     If the process's SID is a special "Root SID", the UID/GID passed
              will be 0/0 (i.e. root).  The "root SID" is S-1-5-18.

       The Windows client can associate a NTSD with a file, but it's ignored by
       the quota subsystem. (It's only used for access control by the client at
       that point.)

       On a Windows MDC, the favored identifiers are user and group SIDs derived
       from the NTSD which owns the file.  If there is no NTSD associated with
       the file, the UID/GID values associated with the inode are used.  So,
       when a Windows client creates a file, it passes in a NTSD.  That NTSD
       broken into SIDs and used as file's owner identifiers as far as the quota
       subsystem is concerned.  When a UNIX client creates a file, it passes the
       usual UID/GID pair, not a NTSD.  This is used by the quota system.  If
       that file is accessed from a on Windows client, it gets assigned an NTSD.
       At that point the quota will be wrong.  Subsequent allocations of that
       file will be charged to the SD and not the UID/GID.

       So, the preferred method of running quotas with a mixture of UNIX and
       Windows clients is to run with a Linux MDC with UNIX user/group mappings
       for Active Directory users.  That way, a user who logs into clients of
       either OS will have a single quota (which will be based on the UID).

       Another option is to just use Directory Quotas.  They are much more
       straight-forward to share between OS types.

UNITS
       Usage and Limits are printed in a human-readable form, suffixed with "K",
       "M", "G", "T","P", or "E" for kibibytes, mebibyte, gibibyte, tebibyte,
       pebibytes, or exbibytes, respectively.  These are base-2 values (i.e. 1K
       = 1024).  A value without a suffix is in bytes.

       File count values are also printed with these suffixes, but they are
       base-10 values (i.e. 1K = 1000).

       Time values are printed with the suffixes "m", "h", "d", "w", "M" and "y"
       for minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, and years, respectively.

       If the -e option is used, the suffixes are disabled and exact values are
       printed. Time units are in minutes.

       These suffixes can also be used when specifying limits with the -h, -s,
       and -t options.  Decimal values may be used (e.g -h 1.5g).

       For the most part, the case of the suffix doesn't matter.  The only
       exception to that is the time suffixes "m" and "M", meaning "minutes" and
       "months", respectively.

FILE SYSTEM SPECIFICATION
       -F VolumeName
              Specify VolumeName as the volume to manipulate.  VolumeName may be
              qualified with cluster and administrative domain, if other than
              the default cluster in which the command is being run. The syntax
              is VolumeName@<cluster>[/<addom>].

       -P Path
              Specify the volume containing Path as the volume to manipulate.

ACTIONS
       -C     This action creates an initialized DQNS on the directory specified
              by the -d argument.  After this command is run, disk space usage
              and file counts will be tracked in the directory and all its
              subdirectories.  Later, limits may be set on the DQNS using the -S
              action.  Note that since this operation creates and initializes
              the DQNS, the directory tree contained by the new DQNS will be
              walked to total up the current usage values.  This may take some
              time.  Modifications to the files and directories in the DQNS will
              be stalled until this walk is complete.

       -D     This action destroys the DQNS specified by the -d argument.  Disk
              space and file count usage values will no longer be tracked.
              Limits will no longer be enforced.  Note that this does not modify
              or destroy the files and directories in the DQNS in any way.

       -G     This action returns the quota limits and values for the user,
              group, or directory specified by the -u, -g, or -d option,
              respectively.

       -L     This action lists the current quota limits and values for all
              user, group, and directory quotas.

       -M     This action creates (marks) an uninitialized DQNS on the directory
              specified by the -d argument.  After this command is run, disk
              space usage and file counts will be tracked in the directory and
              all its subdirectories.  Later, limits may be set on the DQNS
              using the -S option.  Note that since this operation creates (but
              does not initialize) the DQNS, the usage values for the DQNS will
              start out at zero.  The user should later use the -R action to
              initialize the usage values.  See the DIRECTORY QUOTA NAME SPACES
              section above for a discussion on when to use -M and when to use
              -C.  When in doubt, don't use this action.  Use -C instead.

       -R     This action rebuilds the quota database.  It is most useful when
              used after snquota has been used a number of times with the -M
              action.  See the DIRECTORY QUOTA NAME SPACES section above.  Note
              that this action can take a long time.  The volume will be
              unresponsive during this time.  The action cannot be canceled
              after it is started.  A prompt will be displayed confirming the
              intent to run the action unless the -Y option is specified. A
              rebuild preserves limits and DQNSs.

       -S     This action sets the quota limits for the user, group, or
              directory specified by the -u, -g, or -d option, respectively.
              The limits must be specified by the -h, -s, and -t, options.  All
              three must be present, but some/all may be zero.

       -X     This action generates quota reports for all users and groups.
              There are three files placed in
              /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/<volume_name>:
                  1. quota_report.txt - a "pretty" text file report.
                  2. quota_report.csv - a comma delimited report suitable
                     for Excel spreadsheets.  Fields that can have commas,
                     newlines, and other strange characters are escaped with
                     double quotes.  This is the case with DQNSs path fields.
                  3. quota_regen.in - a list of snquota commands that can be
                     used to set up an identical quota database on another
                     Xsan volume. Passing this file to
                     the shell executes it as a script.

       -Z     This action completely destroys all quota configuration and then
              rebuilds the quota database as in the -R option above. Unlike the
              -R action,  -Z clears the limits and directory quota name spaces.
              It is recommended that the quota_regen.in file be generated using
              the -X option to save the quota configuration prior to using -Z.

OPTIONS
       -0     List, read, and set default limits.  When specified with the -L
              action, the default limits are included in the list (if they are
              non-zero).  When specified with the -G or -S actions, the default
              limits for the specified type of quota are read or written.  When
              using -0, the argument for -u, -g, -d, or -fd should be "default".

       -a     When this option is used, directory quota paths printed by the -L
              and -G options will be absolute paths.  Paths supplied to the -d
              option are also absolute paths (or relative to the CWD).  When
              this option is absent, all paths are relative to the root of the
              specified volume.

       -d Directory
              This option specifies a DQNS on a Xsan volume to be used with the
              -C, -D, -G, -M, or -S options.  The directory supplied is the root
              directory of the DQNS.  The directory path is relative to the root
              of the specified volume, unless the -a option is used.

       -e     When used with the -G or -L actions, numbers will be printed as
              exact values.  Usage and Limits which represent disk space are
              printed in bytes.  Times are printed in minutes.  For example,
              with this option, a one megabyte hard limit will be printed as
              "1048576", not "1M".  A one day grace period will be printed as
              "1440", not "1d".

       -f     The -f option is only useful with the -G and -S actions and the -d
              option.  When the -f option is present, limits and values
              represent the number of regular files contained in the DQNS.  If
              the -f option is not present, limits and values represent the disk
              space contained in the DQNS.

       -g GroupName
              This option specifies the name of a group to get or set with the
              -G or -S action.  The group name may also be of the form "G:id",
              where "id" is a number that represents a group's GID.

       -H HostName
              Use a hostname in a Xsan cluster that is different from the
              cluster the command is being run on.  This option in rarely
              needed.

       -h HardLimit
              This option specifies a hard limit to set when used with the -S
              action.  See the UNITS section above.  The maximum hard limit
              value is 16 exbibytes - 1 fsBlockSize (the file system configured
              block size.) If the fsBlockSize is 4096, the maximum hard limit
              value is 18,446,744,073,709,547,520 bytes.  (Note: commas were
              added for readability; commas are not allowed in values.)

       -h     This option causes snquota to print a friendly help message and
              exit.  It only works when used by itself.  If there are other
              options present, it is assumed that a hard limit is being
              specified.

       -o {text|xml|json}
              Print output in text, xml, or json.  The default is text.

       -s SoftLimit
              This option specifies a soft limit to set when used with the -S
              action.  See the UNITS section above. The maximum soft limit value
              is 16 exbibytes - 1 fsBlockSize (the file system configured block
              size.) If the fsBlockSize is 4096, the maximum soft limit value is
              18,446,744,073,709,547,520 bytes.  (Note: commas were added for
              readability; commas are not allowed in values.)

       -t GracePeriod
              This option specifies a grace period to set when used with the -S
              action.  See the UNITS section above.

       -u UserName
              This option specifies the name of a user to get or set with the -G
              or -S action.  The user name may also be of the form "U:id", where
              "id" is a number that represents a user's UID.

       -Y     When used with the -R or -Z actions, this option prevents snquota
              from asking for confirmation.

       -z     This option is the same as specifying "-h 0 -s 0 -t 0".  It's only
              useful with the -S action.

EXIT VALUES
       snquota will return 0 on success and non-zero on failure.

EXAMPLES
       List all the quota limits and values on a volume named "data".

          snquota -F data -L

       List all the quota limits and values on a volume named "data", but in
       cluster "cluster1".

          snquota -F data@cluster1 -L

       Specify a hard limit of ten gigabytes, a soft limit of nine gigabytes,
       and a grace period of one week on user "lisa" in a volume named "data".

          snquota -F data -S -u lisa -h 10g -s 9g -t 1w

       Turn off quota limits for user "lisa" in a volume named "data".

          snquota -F data -S -u lisa -z

       Get the quota values for a group named "simpsons" on a volume mounted on
       "/stornext/data".

          snquota -P /stornext/data -G -g simpsons

       Create a DQNS on the directory "/lisa/saxophone_music" in a volume
       mounted on "/stornext/data".

          snquota -P /stornext/data -C -d /lisa/saxophone_music

       Specify a hard limit of one gigabyte, a soft limit of nine hundred
       megabytes, and a grace period of one day on pre-existing DQNS
       "/lisa/saxophone_music" in a volume named "data".

          snquota -F data -S -d /lisa/saxophone_music -h 1g -s 900m -t 1d

       Create a number of DQNSs using -M and -R.  This is faster than using -C
       if these directories take up most of the space in the volume.

          snquota -F data -M -d /bart/comics
          snquota -F data -M -d /bart/pranks
          snquota -F data -M -d /bart/itchy_and_scratchy
          snquota -F data -R

       Create the same DQNSs using -C.  This is faster than using -M and -R if
       the directories are small.

          snquota -F data -C -d /bart/comics
          snquota -F data -C -d /bart/pranks
          snquota -F data -C -d /bart/itchy_and_scratchy

       Specify a hard limit of one thousand files, a soft limit of nine hundred
       files, and a grace period of one week on pre-existing DQNS "/bart/pranks"
       in a volume named "data".

          snquota -F data -S -d /bart/pranks -f -h 1k -s 900 -t 1w

       Set default hard limits limits for all newly created DQNSs.  The first
       line set defaults for disk space and the second line sets defaults for
       files.

          snquota -F data -S -0d default -h 1t -s 0 -t 0
          snquota -F data -S -0fd default -h 1m -s 0 -t 0

SEE ALSO
       snfs_config(5), snfs_rest_config.json(4)



