TOP(1)                       General Commands Manual                      TOP(1)

NAME
     top – display sorted information about processes

SYNOPSIS
     top [-a | -d | -e | -c mode]
         [-F | -f]
         [-h]
         [-i interval]
         [-l samples]
         [-ncols columns]
         [-o key | -O skey]
         [-R | -r]
         [-S]
         [-s delay-secs]
         [-n nprocs]
         [-stats keys]
         [-pid processid]
         [-user username]
         [-U username]
         [-u]

DESCRIPTION
     The top program periodically displays a sorted list of system processes.
     The default sorting key is pid, but other keys can be used instead.
     Various output options are available.

OPTIONS
     Command line option specifications are processed from left to right.
     Options can be specified more than once.  If conflicting options are
     specified, later specifications override earlier ones.  This makes it
     viable to create a shell alias for top with preferred defaults specified,
     then override those preferred defaults as desired on the command line.

     -a      Equivalent to -c a.

     -c mode
             Set event counting mode to mode.  The supported modes are

             a       Accumulative mode.  Count events cumulatively, starting at
                     the launch of top.  Calculate CPU usage and CPU time since
                     the launch of top.

             d       Delta mode.  Count events relative to the previous sample.
                     Calculate CPU usage since the previous sample.  This mode
                     by default disables the memory object map reporting.  The
                     memory object map reporting may be re-enabled with the -r
                     option or the interactive r command.

             e       Absolute mode.  Count events using absolute counters.

             n       Non-event mode (default).  Calculate CPU usage since the
                     previous sample.

     -d      Equivalent to -c d.

     -e      Equivalent to -c e.

     -F      Do not calculate statistics on shared libraries, also known as
             frameworks.

     -f      Calculate statistics on shared libraries, also known as frameworks
             (default).

     -h      Print command line usage information and exit.

     -i interval
             Update framework (-f) info every interval samples; see the
             PERFORMANCE/ACCURACY TRADEOFF section for more details.

     -l samples
             Use logging mode and display samples samples, even if standard
             output is a terminal.  0 is treated as infinity.  Rather than
             redisplaying, output is periodically printed in raw form.  Note
             that the first sample displayed will have an invalid %CPU displayed
             for each process, as it is calculated using the delta between
             samples.

     -ncols columns
             Display columns when using logging mode.  The default is infinite.
             The number must be > 0 or an error will occur.

     -n nprocs
             Only display up to nprocs processes.

     -O skey
             Use skey as a secondary key when ordering the process display.  See
             -o for key names (pid is the default).

     -o key  Order the process display by sorting on key in descending order.  A
             + or - can be prefixed to the key name to specify ascending or
             descending order, respectively.  The supported keys are:

             pid     Process ID

             command
                     Command name.

             cpu     CPU usage.  (default).

             cpu_me  CPU time charged to me by other processes.

             cpu_others
                     CPU time charged to other processes by me.

             csw     The number of context switches.

             time    Execution time.

             threads
                     alias: th
                     Number of threads (total/running).

             ports   alias: prt
                     Number of Mach ports.

             mregion
                     alias: mreg, reg
                     Number of memory regions.

             mem     Physical memory footprint of the process.

             rprvt   Resident private address space size.

             purg    Purgeable memory size.

             vsize   Total memory size.

             vprvt   Private address space size.

             kprvt   Private kernel memory size.

             kshrd   Shared kernel memory size.

             pgrp    Process group ID.

             ppid    Parent process ID.

             state   alias: pstate
                     Process state.
                     One of "zombie", "running", "stuck" (i.e. uninterruptible
                     sleep),  "sleeping", "idle", "stopped", "halted", or
                     "unknown".

             uid     User ID.

             wq      alias: #wq, workqueue
                     The workqueue total/running.

             faults  alias: fault
                     The number of page faults.

             cow     alias: cow_faults
                     The copy-on-write faults.

             user    alias: username
                     Username.

             msgsent
                     Total number of Mach messages sent.

             msgrecv
                     Total number of Mach messages received.

             sysbsd  Total BSD syscalls.

             sysmach
                     Total Mach syscalls.

             pageins
                     Total pageins.

             boosts  The number of boosts held by the process.  This is followed
                     by the number of times the process has transitioned from
                     unboosted to boosted in brackets.  An asterisk before the
                     value indicates that the process was able to send boosts at
                     some point since the previous update.  For more information
                     about boosts, see xpc_transaction_begin(3).

             instrs  The number of instructions retired by the process in both
                     user space and the kernel.

             cycles  The number of cycles spent executing instructions in the
                     process in both user space and the kernel.

     -R      Do not traverse and report the memory object map for each process
             (default).

     -r      Traverse and report the memory object map for each process.

     -S      Display the global statistics for swap and purgeable memory.

     -s delay-secs
             Set the delay between updates to delay-secs seconds.  The default
             delay between updates is 1 second.

     -stats keys
             Only display the comma separated statistics.  See the -o flag for
             the valid keys.

     -pid processid
             Only display processid in top.  This option may be specified
             multiple times.

     -user user
             Only display processes owned by user

     -U user
             This is an alias for -user.

     -u      This is an alias equivalent to: -o cpu -O time

DISPLAY
     The first several lines of the top display show various global state.  All
     of the information is labeled.  Following is an alphabetical list of global
     state fields and their descriptions.

     CPU         Percentage of processor usage, broken into user, system, and
                 idle components.  The time period for which these percentages
                 are calculated depends on the event counting mode.

     Disks       Number and total size of disk reads and writes.

     LoadAvg     Load average over 1, 5, and 15 minutes.  The load average is
                 the average number of jobs in the run queue.

     MemRegions  Number and total size of memory regions, and total size of
                 memory regions broken into private (broken into non-library and
                 library) and shared components.

     Networks    Number and total size of input and output network packets.

     PhysMem     Physical memory usage, broken into wired, active, inactive,
                 used, and free components.

     Procs       Total number of processes and number of processes in each
                 process state.

     SharedLibs  Resident sizes of code and data segments, and link editor
                 memory usage.

     Threads     Number of threads.

     Time        Time, in H:MM:SS format.  When running in logging mode, Time is
                 in YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS format by default, but may be overridden
                 with accumulative mode.  When running in accumulative event
                 counting mode, the Time is in HH:MM:SS since the beginning of
                 the top process.

     VirtMem     Total virtual memory, virtual memory consumed by shared
                 libraries, and number of pageins and pageouts.

     Swap        Swap usage: total size of swap areas, amount of swap space in
                 use and amount of swap space available.

     Purgeable   Number of pages purged and number of pages currently purgeable.

     Below the global state fields, a list of processes is displayed.  The
     fields that are displayed depend on the options that are set.  The pid
     field displays the following for the architecture:

     + for 64-bit native architecture, or - for 32-bit native architecture, or *
     for a non-native architecture.

INTERACTION
     When top is run in interactive (non-logging) mode, it is possible to
     control the output of top, as well as interactively send signals to
     processes.  The interactive command syntax is terse.  Each command is one
     character, followed by 0 to 2 arguments.  Commands that take arguments
     prompt interactively for the arguments, and where applicable, the default
     value is shown in square brackets.  The default value can be selected by
     leaving the input field blank and pressing enter.  ^G escapes the
     interactive argument prompt, and has the same effect as leaving the input
     field blank and pressing enter.

     The following commands are supported:

     ?       Display the help screen.  Any character exits help screen mode.
             This command always works, even in the middle of a command.

     ^L      Redraw the screen.

     cmode   Set output mode to mode.  See the -c option for descriptions of the
             allowed modes.

     Oskey   Use skey as a secondary key when ordering the process display.  See
             the -o option for key names.

     okey    Order the process display by sorting on key in descending order.  A
             + or - can be prefixed to the key name to specify ascending or
             descending order, respectively.  The supported keys and alises are
             listed with the -o option above.

     q       Quit.

     r       Toggle traversal and reporting of the memory object map for each
             process.

     Ssignalpid
             Send signal signal to pid.  signal can be specified either as a
             number or as a name (for example, HUP).  The default signal starts
             out as TERM.  Each time a signal is successfully sent, the default
             signal is updated to be that signal.  pid is a process id.

     s delay-secs
             Set the delay between updates to delay-secs seconds.

     U user  Only display processes owned by user. Either the username or uid
             number can be specified.  To display all processes, press enter
             without entering a username or uid number.

PERFORMANCE/ACCURACY TRADEOFF
     Calculating detailed memory statistics is fundamentally resource-intensive.
     To reduce the CPU usage in top, the -i option has been introduced to allow
     the user to tune this tradeoff.  With the default value of 10, framework
     stats will be updated once every 10 samples.  Specifying -i 1 will result
     in the most accurate display, at the expense of system resources.

NOT AVAILABLE
     When N/A occurs in a stat, it's caused by the memory object map reporting
     being disabled.  Memory object map reporting is disabled by default in
     delta mode, but may be optionally enabled via -r or the interactive r
     command.  To enable the -r option, use it after any -c mode options.

EXAMPLES
     top -o cpu -O +rsize -s 5 -n 20
             Sort the processes according to CPU usage (descending) and resident
             memory size (ascending), sample and update the display at 5 second
             intervals, and limit the display to 20 processes.

     top -c d
             Run top in delta mode.

     top -stats pid,command,cpu,th,pstate,time
             Display only the specified statistics, regardless of any growth of
             the terminal.  If the terminal is too small, only the statistics
             that fit will be displayed.

SEE ALSO
     taskinfo(1), vm_stat(1), vmmap(1), kill(2), signal(3)

