UNAME(1)                     General Commands Manual                    UNAME(1)

NAME
     uname – display information about the system

SYNOPSIS
     uname [-amnoprsv]

DESCRIPTION
     The uname command writes the name of the operating system implementation to
     standard output.  When options are specified, strings representing one or
     more system characteristics are written to standard output.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Behave as though the options -m, -n, -r, -s, and -v were specified.

     -m      Write the type of the current hardware platform to standard output.
             (make(1) uses it to set the MACHINE variable.)

     -n      Write the name of the system to standard output.

     -o      This is a synonym for the -s option, for compatibility with other
             systems.

     -p      Write the type of the machine processor architecture to standard
             output.  (make(1) uses it to set the MACHINE_ARCH variable.)

     -r      Write the current release level of the operating system to standard
             output.

     -s      Write the name of the operating system implementation to standard
             output.

     -v      Write the version level of this release of the operating system to
             standard output.

     If the -a flag is specified, or multiple flags are specified, all output is
     written on a single line, separated by spaces.

ENVIRONMENT
     An environment variable composed of the string UNAME_ followed by any flag
     to the uname utility (except for -a) will allow the corresponding data to
     be set to the contents of the environment variable.

     The -m, -n, -r, -s, and -v variables additionally have long aliases that
     have historically been honored on MacOS, “UNAME_MACHINE”, “UNAME_NODENAME”,
     “UNAME_RELEASE”, “UNAME_SYSNAME”, and “UNAME_VERSION” respectively.  These
     names have a higher priority than their shorter counterparts described in
     the previous paragraph.

     See uname(3) for more information.

EXIT STATUS
     The uname utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     The hardware platform (-m) can be different from the machine's processor
     architecture (-p), e.g., on 64-bit PowerPC, -m would return powerpc and -p
     would return powerpc64.

SEE ALSO
     hostname(1), machine(1), sw_vers(1), sysctl(3), uname(3), sysctl(8)

STANDARDS
     The uname command is expected to conform to the IEEE Std 1003.2 (“POSIX.2”)
     specification.

HISTORY
     The uname command appeared in PWB UNIX 1.0, however 4.4BSD was the first
     Berkeley release with the uname command.

     The -K and -U extension flags appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.  The -b extension
     flag appeared in FreeBSD 13.0.

