vidio(1)                     General Commands Manual                    vidio(1)



NAME
       vidiomap - Video frame allocation inspector and resequencer

SYNOPSIS
       vidiomap [options] target_dir [target_dir...]

DESCRIPTION
       The vidiomap utility can be used to determine how the StorNext file
       system has allocated the files within a given directory.  Optionally,
       vidiomap can be used to "defragment" and "resequence" those files.
       Optionally, multiple target directories may be specified.

       The vidiomap utility is intended to be used primarily on video frame
       files within a directory.  It is not indented for use as a general
       purpose file system allocation analysis or "defragmentation" utility.
       See snfsdefrag(1).

       Without options, vidiomap will print a summary analysis of the allocation
       of files in the target directory, including the number of regular files,
       the total number of extents, and space consumed.  Also printed is
       information relating to the total number and average size of the gaps
       between the extents.

       The -v option may be used to provide detailed information about file
       allocation on a per extent basis.  The actual file system block numbers
       consumed are printed along with the gaps between extents.  Notice that
       gaps can be negative, indicating the subsequent allocation was to a
       lesser file system block number than the current allocation.

       To analyze the allocation of files within a directory, the desired file
       order first must be determined.  By default, vidiomap will sort all the
       files in the target directory alpha-numerically by file name.
       Optionally, file names may be filtered by file prefix and file suffix.
       See the -p and -s options.  Optionally, a list of file names may be
       provided.  See the -f option.

       The "resequencing" and "defragmentation" of files is a multi-step process
       that makes heavy use of the StorNext file System Application Programming
       Interface, SNAPI.  The steps are a follows:

          1.  Determine the file order.

          2.  For each file, a "shadow file" is created and blocks are preallocated.

          3.  The data is copied from the original file, to the shadow file.

          4.  The newly allocated extents are swapped into the original file inode.

          5.  The "shadow files" are removed.

       Shadow files are named filename_shadow and are created in the target
       directory.

       As stated previously, vidiomap is not a general purpose file system
       "defragmentor".  An older file system or a file system nearing capacity
       may have a fragmented free space pool. Using vidiomap to resequence files
       may not help in this case and could make fragmentation worse.  Consider
       using snfsdefrag before resequencing files with vidiomap.

       The resequencing option is intended to work with the StorNext Allocation
       Session Reservation feature.  This feature is managed using the GUI or by
       modifying the allocSessionReservationSize parameter, see snfs_config(5).

       Because resequencing copies the data to the newly allocated space,
       consider the performance impact of resequencing files on a production
       system.  Resequencing a large number of files can take some time,
       depending on the size of the files, the performance of the underlying
       storage, and other file system activity.

OPTIONS
       -?     Display usage.

       -d[dd] Run in debug mode. The more "d's" specified, the more debug
              information is printed.

       -f file_list
              Get the list of target files from the specified file instead of
              the the target directory.  The files will be processed in the
              order listed.  The format for this file is one file name per line.

       -p prefix
              Target only files with the specified prefix.  If the prefix option
              is specified along with the suffix option, both must be true to
              target a given file.

       -r     Resequence and "defragment" the target files.

       -s suffix
              Target only files with the specified suffix.  If the prefix option
              is specified along with the suffix option, both must be true to
              target a given file.

       -v     Be verbose.  Print each extent of each target file showing the
              file system blocks consumed and gaps between the extents.

FILES
       /System/Library/Filesystems/acfs.fs/Contents/bin/vidiomap

SEE ALSO
       cvfs(8), snfsdefrag(1), snfs_config(5), vidio(1)



