vmmap(1)                     General Commands Manual                    vmmap(1)

NAME
     vmmap – Display the virtual memory regions allocated in a process

SYNOPSIS
     vmmap [-w] [-v] [-pages] [-interleaved] [-submap] [-allSplitLibs]
           [-noCoalesce] [-summary]
           pid | partial-executable-name | memory-graph-file [address]

DESCRIPTION
     vmmap displays the virtual memory regions allocated in a specified process,
     helping a programmer understand how memory is being used, and what the
     purposes of memory at a given address may be.

     vmmap requires one argument -- either the process ID or the full or partial
     executable name of the process to examine, or the pathname of a memory
     graph file generated by leaks or the Xcode Memory Graph Debugger.

     If the optional address is given, information is only shown for the VM
     region containing that address (if any) and the regions around it.

OPTIONS
     -w, -wide      Print wide output, to show full paths of mapped files.

     -v, -verbose   Equivalent to -w -submap -allSplitLibs -noCoalesce

     -pages         Print region sizes in page counts rather than kilobytes.

     -interleaved   Print all regions in ascending order of starting address,
                    rather than printing all non-writable regions followed by
                    all writable regions.

     -submap        Print information about VM submaps.

     -allSplitLibs  Print information about all shared system split libraries,
                    even those not loaded by this process.

     -noCoalesce    Do not coalesce adjacent identical regions.  Default is to
                    coalesce for more concise output.

     -summary       Print only the summary of VM usage, not the individual
                    region detail.

EXPLANATION OF OUTPUT
     For each region, vmmap describes the starting address, ending address, size
     of the region (in kilobytes or pages), read/write permissions for the page,
     sharing mode for the page, and the purpose of the pages.

     The size of the virtual memory region represents the virtual memory pages
     reserved, but not necessarily allocated.  For example, using the
     vm_allocate Mach system call reserves the pages, but physical memory won't
     be allocated for the page until the memory is actually touched.  A memory-
     mapped file may have a virtual memory page reserved, but the pages are not
     instantiated until a read or write happens.  Thus, this size may not
     correctly describe the application's true memory usage.

     By default, the sizes are shown in kilobytes or megabytes.  If the -pages
     flag is given, then the sizes are in number of VM pages.

     The protection mode describes if the memory is readable, writable, or
     executable.  Each virtual memory region has a current permission, and a
     maximum permission.  In the line for a virtual memory region, the current
     permission is displayed first, the maximum permission second.  For example,
     the first page of an application (starting at address 0x00000000) permits
     neither reads, writes, or execution ("---"), ensuring that any reads or
     writes to address 0, or dereferences of a NULL pointer immediately cause a
     bus error.  Pages representing an executable always have the execute and
     read bits set ("r-x").  The current permissions usually do not permit
     writing to the region.  However, the maximum permissions allow writing so
     that the debugger can request write access to a page to insert breakpoints.
     Permissions for executables appear as "r-x/rwx" to indicate these
     permissions.

     The share mode describes whether pages are shared between processes,and
     what happens when pages are modified.  Private pages (PRV) are pages only
     visible to this process.  They are allocated as they are written to, and
     can be paged out to disk. Copy-on-write (COW) pages are shared by multiple
     processes (or shared by a single process in multiple locations).  When the
     page is modified, the writing process then receives its own private copy of
     the page.  Empty (NUL) sharing implies that the page does not really exist
     in physical memory.  Aliased (ALI) and shared (SHM) memory is shared
     between processes.

     The share mode typically describes the general mode controlling the region.
     For example, as copy-on-write pages are modified, they become private to
     the application.  Even with the private pages, the region is still COW
     until all pages become private.  Once all pages are private, then the share
     mode would change to private.

     The far left column names the purpose of the memory: malloc regions, stack,
     text or data segment, etc.  For regions loaded from binaries, the far right
     shows the library loaded into the memory.

     If the -submaps flag is given, then vmmap's output includes descriptions of
     submaps.  A submap is a shared set of virtual memory page descriptions that
     the operating system can reuse between multiple processes.  Submaps
     minimize the operating system's memory usage by representing the virtual
     memory regions only once.  Submaps can either be shared by all processes
     (machine-wide) or local to the process (process-only).  (Understanding
     where submaps are located is irrelevant for most developers, but may be
     interesting for anyone working with low levels of the virtual memory
     system.)

     For example, one submap contains the read-only portions of the most common
     dynamic libraries.  These libraries are needed by most programs on the
     system, and because they are read-only, they will never be changed.  As a
     result, the operating system shares these pages between all the processes,
     and only needs to create a single data structure to describe how this
     memory is laid out in every process.

     That section of memory is referred to as the "split library region", and it
     is shared system-wide.  So, technically, all of the dynamic libraries that
     have been loaded into that region are in the VM map of every process, even
     though some processes may not be using some of those libraries.  By
     default, vmmap shows only those shared system split libraries that have
     been loaded into the specified target process.  If the -allSplitLibs flag
     is given, information about all shared system split libraries will be
     printed, regardless of whether they've been loaded into the specified
     target process or not.

     If the contents of a machine-wide submap are changed -- for example, the
     debugger makes a section of memory for a dylib writable so it can insert
     debugging traps -- then the submap becomes local, and the kernel will
     allocate memory to store the extra copy.

     % FRAG, fragmentation, in the MALLOC ZONE summary is computed by the
     following method:

         % FRAG = 100 - (100 * Allocated / (Dirty + Swapped))

     Dirty and swapped are memory which has been written to by the process.
     Allocated is the number of bytes currently allocated from malloc.

SEE ALSO
     heap(1), leaks(1), malloc_history(1), stringdups(1), lsof(8)

     The heap, leaks, and malloc_history commands can be used to look at various
     aspects of a process's memory usage.

     The lsof command can be used to get a list of open and mapped files in one
     or more processes, which can help determine why a volume can't be unmounted
     or ejected, for example.

     The Xcode developer tools also include Instruments, a graphical application
     that can give information similar to that provided by vmmap. The
     Allocations instrument graphically displays dynamic, real-time information
     about the object and memory use in an application (including VM
     allocations), as well as backtraces of where the allocations occured.  The
     VM Tracker instrument in the Allocations template graphically displays
     information about the virtual memory regions in a process.

