WHOIS(1)                     General Commands Manual                    WHOIS(1)

NAME
     whois – Internet domain name and network number directory service

SYNOPSIS
     whois [-aAbfgiIklmPQrRS] [-c TLD | -h host] [-p port] [--] name ...

DESCRIPTION
     The whois utility looks up records in the databases maintained by several
     Network Information Centers (NICs).

     By default whois starts by querying the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
     (IANA) whois server, and follows referrals to whois servers that have more
     specific details about the query name.  The IANA whois server knows about
     IP address and AS numbers as well as domain names.

     There are a few special cases where referrals do not work, so whois goes
     directly to the appropriate server.  These include point-of-contact handles
     for ARIN, nic.at, NORID, and RIPE, and domain names under ac.uk.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Use the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) database.  It
             contains network numbers used in those parts of the world covered
             neither by APNIC, AfriNIC, LACNIC, nor by RIPE.  The query syntax
             is documented at
             https://www.arin.net/resources/whoisrws/whois_api.html#nicname

     -A      Use the Asia/Pacific Network Information Center (APNIC) database.
             It contains network numbers used in East Asia, Australia, New
             Zealand, and the Pacific islands.  Get query syntax documentation
             using whois -A help

     -b      Use the Network Abuse Clearinghouse database.  It contains
             addresses to which network abuse should be reported, indexed by
             domain name.

     -c TLD  This is the equivalent of using the -h option with an argument of
             "TLD.whois-servers.net".  This can be helpful for locating country-
             class TLD whois servers.

     -f      Use the African Network Information Centre (AfriNIC) database.  It
             contains network numbers used in Africa and the islands of the
             western Indian Ocean.  Get query syntax documentation using whois
             -f help

     -g      Use the US non-military federal government database, which contains
             points of contact for subdomains of .GOV.

     -h host
             Use the specified host instead of the default.  Either a host name
             or an IP address may be specified.

     -i      Use the traditional Network Information Center (InterNIC)
             (whois.internic.net) database.  This now contains only
             registrations for domain names under .COM, .NET, .EDU.  You can
             specify the type of object to search for like whois -i 'type name'
             where type can be domain, nameserver, registrar.  The name can
             contain * wildcards.

     -I      Use the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) database.

     -k      Use the National Internet Development Agency of Korea's (KRNIC)
             database.  It contains network numbers and domain contact
             information for Korea.

     -l      Use the Latin American and Caribbean IP address Regional Registry
             (LACNIC) database.  It contains network numbers used in much of
             Latin America and the Caribbean.

     -m      Use the Route Arbiter Database (RADB) database.  It contains route
             policy specifications for a large number of operators' networks.

     -p port
             Connect to the whois server on port.  If this option is not
             specified, whois defaults to port 43.

     -P      Use the PeeringDB database of AS numbers.  It contains details
             about presence at internet peering points for many network
             operators.

     -Q      Do a quick lookup; whois will not attempt to follow referrals to
             other whois servers.  This is the default if a server is explicitly
             specified using one of the other options or in an environment
             variable.  See also the -R option.

     -r      Use the R´eseaux IP Europ´eens (RIPE) database.  It contains
             network numbers and domain contact information for Europe.  Get
             query syntax documentation using whois -r help

     -R      Do a recursive lookup; whois will attempt to follow referrals to
             other whois servers.  This is the default if no server is
             explicitly specified.  See also the -Q option.

     -S      By default whois adjusts simple queries (without spaces) to produce
             more useful output from certain whois servers, and it suppresses
             some uninformative output.  With the -S option, whois sends the
             query and prints the output verbatim.

     The operands specified to whois are treated independently and may be used
     as queries on different whois servers.

ENVIRONMENT
     WHOIS_SERVER  The primary default whois server.  If this is unset, whois
                   uses the RA_SERVER environment variable.

     RA_SERVER     The secondary default whois server.  If this is unset, whois
                   will use whois.iana.org.

EXIT STATUS
     The whois utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     To obtain contact information about an administrator located in the Russian
     TLD domain "RU", use the -c option as shown in the following example, where
     CONTACT-ID is substituted with the actual contact identifier.

           whois -c RU CONTACT-ID

     (Note: This example is specific to the TLD "RU", but other TLDs can be
     queried by using a similar syntax.)

     The following example demonstrates how to query a whois server using a non-
     standard port, where “query-data” is the query to be sent to
     “whois.example.com” on port “rwhois” (written numerically as 4321).

           whois -h whois.example.com -p rwhois query-data

     Some whois servers support complex queries with dash-letter options.  You
     can use the -- option to separate whois command options from whois server
     query options.  A query containing spaces must be quoted as one argument to
     the whois command.  The following example asks the RIPE whois server to
     return a brief description of its “domain” object type:

           whois -r -- '-t domain'

SEE ALSO
     Ken Harrenstien and Vic White, NICNAME/WHOIS, 1 March 1982, RFC 812.

HISTORY
     The whois command appeared in 4.3BSD.

