GROFF_MAN(7)            Miscellaneous Information Manual            GROFF_MAN(7)



NAME
       groff_man - groff `man' macros to support generation of man pages

SYNOPSIS
       groff -man [ options... ] [ files... ]
       groff -m man [ options... ] [ files... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The man macros used to generate man_pages with groff were written by
       James Clark.  This document provides a brief summary of the use of each
       macro in that package.

OPTIONS
       The man macros understand the following command line options (which
       define various registers).

       -rcR=1 This option (the default if in nroff mode) will create a single,
              very long page instead of multiple pages.  Say -rcR=0 to disable
              it.

       -rC1   If more than one manual page is given on the command line, number
              the pages continuously, rather than starting each at 1.

       -rD1   Double-sided printing.  Footers for even and odd pages are
              formatted differently.

       -rFT=dist
              Set distance of the footer relative to the bottom of the page if
              negative or relative to the top if positive.  The default is
              -0.5i.

       -rHY=flags
              Set hyphenation flags.  Possible values are 1 to hyphenate without
              restrictions, 2 to not hyphenate the last word on a page, 4 to not
              hyphenate the last two characters of a word, and 8 to not
              hyphenate the first two characters of a word.  These values are
              additive; the default is 14.

       -rIN=width
              Set body text indentation to width.  The default is 7n for nroff,
              7.2n for troff.  For nroff, this value should always be an integer
              multiple of unit `n' to get consistent indentation.

       -rLL=line-length
              Set line length.  If this option is not given, the line length is
              set to respect any value set by a prior `.ll' request, (which must
              be in effect when the `.TH' macro is invoked), if this differs
              from the built-in default for the formatter; otherwise it defaults
              to 78n in nroff mode and 6.5i in troff mode.

              Note that the use of a `.ll' request to initialize the line length
              is supported for backward compatibility with some versions of the
              man program; direct initialization of the `LL' register should
              always be preferred to the use of such a request.  In particular,
              note that a `.ll 65n' request will not preserve the normal nroff
              default line length, (the man default initialization to 78n will
              prevail), whereas, the `-rLL=65n' option, or an equivalent
              `.nr LL 65n' request preceding the use of the `TH' macro, will set
              a line length of 65n.

       -rLT=title-length
              Set title length.  If this option is not given, the title length
              defaults to the line length.

       -rPnnn Enumeration of pages will start with nnn rather than with 1.

       -rSxx  Base document font size is xx points (xx can be 10, 11, or 12)
              rather than 10 points.

       -rSN=width
              Set sub-subheading indentation to width.  The default is 3n.

       -rXnnn After page nnn, number pages as nnna, nnnb, nnnc, etc.  For
              example, the option `-rX2' will produce the following page
              numbers: 1, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, etc.

USAGE
       This section describes the available macros for manual pages.  For
       further customization, put additional macros and requests into the file
       man.local which will be loaded immediately after the man package.

       .TH title section [extra1] [extra2] [extra3]
              Set the title of the n_page to title and the section to section,
              which must take on a value between 1 and 8.  The value section may
              also have a string appended, e.g. `.pm', to indicate a specific
              subsection of the man_pages.  Both title and section are
              positioned at the left and right in the header line (with section
              in parentheses immediately appended to title.  extra1 will be
              positioned in the middle of the footer line.  extra2 will be
              positioned at the left in the footer line (or at the left on even
              pages and at the right on odd pages if double-sided printing is
              active).  extra3 is centered in the header line.

              For HTML output, headers and footers are completely supressed.

              Additionally, this macro starts a new page; the new line number
              is 1 again (except if the `-rC1' option is given on the command
              line) -- this feature is intended only for formatting multiple
              man_pages; a single man_page should contain exactly one TH macro
              at the beginning of the file.

       .SH [text for a heading]
              Set up an unnumbered section heading sticking out to the left.
              Prints out all the text following SH up to the end of the line (or
              the text in the next input line if there is no argument to SH) in
              bold face (or the font specified by the string HF), one size
              larger than the base document size.  Additionally, the left margin
              and the indentation for the following text is reset to the default
              values.

       .SS [text for a heading]
              Set up a secondary, unnumbered section heading.  Prints out all
              the text following SS up to the end of the line (or the text in
              the next input line if there is no argument to SS) in bold face
              (or the font specified by the string HF), at the same size as the
              base document size.  Additionally, the left margin and the
              indentation for the following text is reset to the default values.

       .TP [nnn]
              Set up an indented paragraph with label.  The indentation is set
              to nnn if that argument is supplied (the default unit is `n' if
              omitted), otherwise it is set to the previous indentation value
              specified with TP, IP, or HP (or to the default value if none of
              them have been used yet).

              The first input line of text following this macro is interpreted
              as a string to be printed flush-left, as it is appropriate for a
              label.  It is not interpreted as part of a paragraph, so there is
              no attempt to fill the first line with text from the following
              input lines.  Nevertheless, if the label is not as wide as the
              indentation the paragraph starts at the same line (but indented),
              continuing on the following lines.  If the label is wider than the
              indentation the descriptive part of the paragraph begins on the
              line following the label, entirely indented.  Note that neither
              font shape nor font size of the label is set to a default value;
              on the other hand, the rest of the text will have default font
              settings.

              The TP macro is the macro used for the explanations you are just
              reading.

       .LP
       .PP
       .P     These macros are mutual aliases.  Any of them causes a line break
              at the current position, followed by a vertical space downwards by
              the amount specified by the PD macro.  The font size and shape are
              reset to the default value (10pt resp. Roman).  Finally, the
              current left margin and the indentation are restored.

       .IP [designator] [nnn]
              Set up an indented paragraph, using designator as a tag to mark
              its beginning.  The indentation is set to nnn if that argument is
              supplied (the default unit is `n' if omitted), otherwise it is set
              to the previous indentation value specified with TP, IP, or HP (or
              to the default value if none of them have been used yet).  Font
              size and face of the paragraph (but not the designator) are reset
              to its default values.

              To start an indented paragraph with a particular indentation but
              without a designator, use `""' (two doublequotes) as the second
              argument.

              For example, the following paragraphs were all set up with bullets
              as the designator, using `.IP \(bu 4'.  The whole block has been
              enclosed with `.RS' and `.RE' to set the left margin temporarily
              to the current indentation value.

              •   IP is one of the three macros used in the man package to
                  format lists.

              •   HP is another.  This macro produces a paragraph with a left
                  hanging indentation.

              •   TP is another.  This macro produces an unindented label
                  followed by an indented paragraph.

       .HP [nnn]
              Set up a paragraph with hanging left indentation.  The indentation
              is set to nnn if that argument is supplied (the default unit is
              `n' if omitted), otherwise it is set to the previous indentation
              value specified with TP, IP, or HP (or to the default value if
              none of them have been used yet).  Font size and face are reset to
              its default values.  The following paragraph illustrates the
              effect of this macro with hanging indentation set to 4 (enclosed
              by .RS and .RE to set the left margin temporarily to the current
              indentation):

              This is a paragraph following an invocation of the HP macro.  As
                  you can see, it produces a paragraph where all lines but the
                  first are indented.

       .RS [nnn]
              This macro moves the left margin to the right by the value nnn if
              specified (default unit is `n'); otherwise it is set to the
              previous indentation value specified with TP, IP, or HP (or to the
              default value if none of them have been used yet).  The
              indentation value is then set to the default.

              Calls to the RS macro can be nested.

       .RE [nnn]
              This macro moves the left margin back to level nnn, restoring the
              previous left margin.  If no argument is given, it moves one level
              back.  The first level (i.e., no call to RS yet) has number 1, and
              each call to RS increases the level by 1.

       To summarize, the following macros cause a line break with the insertion
       of vertical space (which amount can be changed with the PD macro): SH,
       SS, TP, LP (PP, P), IP, and HP.  The macros RS and RE also cause a break
       but no insertion of vertical space.

MACROS TO SET FONTS
       The standard font is Roman; the default text size is 10 point.

       .SM [text]
              Causes the text on the same line or the text on the next input
              line to appear in a font that is one point size smaller than the
              default font.

       .SB [text]
              Causes the text on the same line or the text on the next input
              line to appear in boldface font, one point size smaller than the
              default font.

       .BI text
              Causes text on the same line to appear alternately in bold face
              and italic.  The text must be on the same line as the macro call.
              Thus

                     .BI this "word and" that

              would cause `this' and `that' to appear in bold face, while `word
              and' appears in italics.

       .IB text
              Causes text to appear alternately in italic and bold face.  The
              text must be on the same line as the macro call.

       .RI text
              Causes text on the same line to appear alternately in roman and
              italic.  The text must be on the same line as the macro call.

       .IR text
              Causes text on the same line to appear alternately in italic and
              roman.  The text must be on the same line as the macro call.

       .BR text
              Causes text on the same line to appear alternately in bold face
              and roman.  The text must be on the same line as the macro call.

       .RB text
              Causes text on the same line to appear alternately in roman and
              bold face.  The text must be on the same line as the macro call.

       .B [text]
              Causes text to appear in bold face.  If no text is present on the
              line where the macro is called the text of the next input line
              appears in bold face.

       .I [text]
              Causes text to appear in italic.  If no text is present on the
              line where the macro is called the text of the next input line
              appears in italic.

MISCELLANEOUS
       The default indentation is 7.2n in troff mode and 7n in nroff mode except
       for grohtml which ignores indentation.

       .DT    Set tabs every 0.5 inches.  Since this macro is always called
              during a TH request, it makes sense to call it only if the tab
              positions have been changed.

       .PD [nnn]
              Adjust the empty space before a new paragraph or section.  The
              optional argument gives the amount of space (default unit is `v');
              without parameter, the value is reset to its default value (1 line
              in nroff mode, 0.4v otherwise).  This affects the macros SH, SS,
              TP, LP (resp. PP and P), IP, and HP.

       .AT [system [release]]
              Alter the footer for use with AT&T man_pages.  This command exists
              only for compatibility; don't use it.  See the groff info manual
              for more.

       .UC [version]
              Alter the footer for use with BSD man_pages.  This command exists
              only for compatibility; don't use it.  See the groff info manual
              for more.

       .PT    Print the header string.  Redefine this macro to get control of
              the header.

       .BT    Print the footer string.  Redefine this macro to get control of
              the footer.

       The following strings are defined:

       \*S    Switch back to the default font size.

       \*R    The `registered' sign.

       \*(Tm  The `trademark' sign.

       \*(lq
       \*(rq  Left and right quote.  This is equal to `\(lq' and `\(rq',
              respectively.

       \*(HF  The typeface used to print headings and subheadings.  The default
              is `B'.

       If a preprocessor like tbl or eqn is needed, it has become usage to make
       the first line of the man_page look like this:

              .\" word

       Note the single space character after the double quote.  word consists of
       letters for the needed preprocessors: `e' for eqn, `r' for refer, and `t'
       for tbl.  Modern implementations of the man program read this first line
       and automatically call the right preprocessor(s).

FILES
       man.tmac
       an.tmac
              These are wrapper files to call andoc.tmac.

       andoc.tmac
              This file checks whether the man macros or the mdoc package should
              be used.

       an-old.tmac
              All man macros are contained in this file.

       man.local
              Local changes and customizations should be put into this file.

SEE ALSO
       Since the man macros consist of groups of groff requests, one can, in
       principle, supplement the functionality of the man macros with individual
       groff requests where necessary.  See the groff info pages for a complete
       reference of all requests.

       tbl(1), eqn(1), refer(1), man(1), man(7),

AUTHOR
       This manual page was originally written for the Debian GNU/Linux system
       by Susan G. Kleinmann <sgk@debian.org>, corrected and updated by Werner
       Lemberg <wl@gnu.org>, and is now part of the GNU troff distribution.



