EXPORTS(5)                     File Formats Manual                    EXPORTS(5)

NAME
     exports – define remote mount points for NFS mount requests

SYNOPSIS
     exports

DESCRIPTION
     The exports file specifies remote mount points for the NFS mount protocol
     per the NFS server specification; see Network File System Protocol
     Specification RFC 1094, Appendix A and NFS: Network File System Version 3
     Specification, Appendix I.

     Fields are separated by space or tab characters.  Lines that begin with a #
     are considered comments and are ignored.

     Each line in the file specifies one or more exported directories, any
     additional mountable sub-directories within those directories, export
     flags, and one or more hosts (if access to the export is to be restricted).
     All directories on the line must exist within the same local file system.

     Within a file system there may be several exported sub-directories with
     different export options.  However, none of those exported directories may
     lie within another.

     A host may be specified only once for each exported directory and there may
     be only one default entry for each exported directory that applies to all
     other hosts.  The latter exports the file system to the ``world'' and
     should be used only when the file system contains public information.  Any
     attempt to export the same directory to a host with different export
     options will cause the conflicting export entry to be rejected.

     The first field(s) of an export entry is a list of directories on a local
     file system to export.  At least one pathname must be to an exported
     directory.  Other pathnames may refer to sub-directories of the exported
     directory to indicate that hosts are also allowed to explicitly mount those
     sub-directories of the exported directory.  (Note that the -alldirs flag
     can be used to allow mounting any sub-directories of the pathnames
     specified.)

     Mount points for a file system may appear on multiple lines, each with
     different sets of hosts and export options.

     The pathnames must not have any symbolic links in them and should not have
     any "." or ".." components.  Single and double quote characters occuring in
     a pathname must be escaped with \' and \", respectively.  Space characters
     occuring in a pathname must be escaped, or alternatively, the pathname can
     be enclosed in single or double quotes.

     Note that because an export entry only lists a set of pathnames, it is up
     to the NFS server to correctly determine what file system is meant to be
     exported by that entry.  To that end, the server will attempt to
     intelligently decide which file system best matches the entry by comparing
     all the pathnames with both the current list of mounted file systems and
     the list of previously-exported file systems.  If the server determines
     that the intended file system is not available, it will automatically mark
     that export as offline until the file system becomes available (see the
     -offline export option below for more info).  To avoid any ambiguity, use
     of the -fs export option is recommended (see below).

     The second component of a line specifies how the file system is to be
     exported to the host set.  The option flags specify whether the file system
     is exported read-only or read-write and how the client uid is mapped to
     user credentials on the server.

     Export options are specified as follows:

     -maproot=user The credential of the specified user is used for remote
     access by root.  The credential includes all the groups to which the user
     is a member on the local machine ( see id(1) ). The user may be specified
     by name or number.

     -maproot=user:group1:group2:... The colon separated list is used to specify
     the precise credential to be used for remote access by root.  The elements
     of the list may be either names or numbers.  Note that ``user:'' should be
     used to distinguish a credential containing no groups from a complete
     credential for that user.

     -mapall=user or -mapall=user:group1:group2:... specifies a mapping for all
     client uids (including root) using the same semantics as -maproot.

     The option -r is a synonym for -maproot in an effort to be backward
     compatible with older export file formats.

     In the absence of -maproot and -mapall options, remote accesses by root
     will result in using a credential of -2:-2.  All other users will be mapped
     to their remote credential.  If a -maproot option is given, remote access
     by root will be mapped to that credential instead of -2:-2.  If a -mapall
     option is given, all users (including root) will be mapped to that
     credential in place of their own.

     The -alldirs flag allows the host(s) to mount at any point within the file
     system, including regular files if the -R option is used on nfsd.

     The -ro option specifies that the file system should be exported read-only
     (default read/write).  The option -o is a synonym for -ro in an effort to
     be backward compatible with older export file formats.

     The -32bitclients option causes the NFS server to guarantee that directory
     cookies will fit within 32 bits even though directory cookies are 64 bits
     in NFSv3.  This option may be required with NFS clients that do not
     properly support 64 bit directory cookies.  Use of this option may result
     in sub-optimal performance of the exported file system.

     The -manglednames option causes the NFS server to guarantee that filenames
     will fit into 255 bytes. For NFSv2 this is always the case. For NFSv3
     specifying this option on an export will cause filenames greater than 255
     characters from that export be mangled in such a way that when the client
     presents a received mangled name it will refer to the same name as the
     original name on the server.

     -sec=mechanism1:mechanism2... This option specifies one or more security
     mechanisms required for access to the exported directory.  The security
     mechanisms currently supported are krb5p, krb5i, krb5, and sys.  Multiple
     security mechanisms can be specified as a colon separated list, and should
     be in the order of most preferred to least preferred.  In the absence of
     this option, the security mechanism defaults to sys.

     -offline This option specifies that the given export should be treated as
     if the exported file system is not available.  For NFSv3, this will cause
     clients to receive "jukebox" errors directing them to try the request
     later.  For NFSv2 (which does not support this error value), the export
     will be treated as non-existent and clients will receive stale file handle
     errors.

     -fspath=/path and/or -fsuuid=UUID These options can be used to specify the
     pathname to and/or the UUID of the file system that is intended to be
     exported.  This can be useful to disambiguate the export entry.  Since the
     export syntax only specifies the path to the directory to be exported, it
     can be ambiguous as to what file system is expected to be exported.
     Specifying "/Volumes/XRAID" can be interpreted as exporting either a file
     system mounted on that directory or the "Volumes/XRAID" subdirectory of the
     root file system.  Specifying -fspath=/Volumes/XRAID can prevent exporting
     the wrong file system - for example, if the exports are evaluated at a
     point when the directory exists but the volume has not yet been mounted on
     it.  The export will fail if the file system referred to in an export entry
     either (1) is not mounted at the same path as the given -fspath=/path.  or
     (2) does not have a UUID that matches the given -fsuuid=UUID.

     The third component of a line specifies the host set to which the line
     applies.  The set may be specified in three ways.  The first way is to list
     the host name(s) separated by white space.  (Standard internet IPv4 ``dot''
     addresses or IPv6 colon addresses may be used in place of names.)  The
     second way is to specify a ``netgroup'' as defined in the netgroup file
     (see netgroup(5) ). The third way is to specify an internet sub-network
     using a network and network mask that is defined as the set of all hosts
     with addresses within the sub-network.  This latter approach requires less
     overhead within the kernel and is recommended for cases where the export
     line refers to a large number of clients within an administrative sub-net.

     The first two cases are specified by simply listing the name(s) separated
     by whitespace.  All names are checked to see if they are ``netgroup'' names
     first and are assumed to be hostnames otherwise.  Using the full domain
     specification for a hostname can normally circumvent the problem of a host
     that has the same name as a netgroup.  The third case is specified by the
     flag -network=netname and optionally -mask=netmask.  If the mask is not
     specified, it will default to the mask for that network class (A, B or C;
     see inet(5) ).

EXAMPLES
           /usr /usr/local -maproot=0:10 friends
           /usr -maproot=daemon grumpy.cis.uoguelph.ca 131.104.48.16
           /usr -ro -mapall=nobody
           /u -maproot=bin: -network 131.104.48 -mask 255.255.255.0
           /u1 -alldirs -network 2001:DB8:: -mask ffff:ffff::
           /u2 -maproot=root friends
           /u2 -alldirs -network cis-net -mask cis-mask
           /Users -alldirs -network 2.29.96.0 -mask 255.255.255.0
           /Applications -ro -network 2.29.96.0 -mask 255.255.255.0


     Given that /usr, /u, /u1, /u2, and / are local file system mount points,
     the above example specifies the following:

     /usr is exported to hosts friends, where friends is specified in the
     netgroup file with users mapped to their remote credentials and root mapped
     to uid 0 and group 10.  It is exported read-write and the hosts in friends
     can mount either /usr or /usr/local.  It is exported to 131.104.48.16 and
     grumpy.cis.uoguelph.ca with users mapped to their remote credentials and
     root mapped to the user and groups associated with ``daemon''; it is
     exported to the rest of the world as read-only with all users mapped to the
     user and groups associated with ``nobody''.

     /u is exported to all hosts on the sub-network 131.104.48 with root mapped
     to the uid for ``bin'' and with no group access.

     /u1 is exported to all hosts on the IPv6 sub-network 2001:DB8::

     /u2 is exported to the hosts in ``friends'' with root mapped to uid and
     groups associated with ``root''; it is exported to all hosts on network
     ``cis-net'' allowing mounts at any directory within /u2.

     The /Users and /Applications sub-directories of / are exported to all hosts
     on the sub-network 2.29.96.  Any directory within /Users can be mounted.
     /Users is exported read-write and /Applications is exported read-only.

FILES
     /etc/exports  The default remote mount-point file.

SEE ALSO
     netgroup(5), nfsd(8), showmount(8) portmap(8)

BUGS
     It is recommended that all exported directories within the same server file
     system be specified on adjacent lines going down the tree.  You cannot
     specify a hostname that is also the name of a netgroup.  Specifying the
     full domain specification for a hostname can normally circumvent the
     problem.

