resolver(5)                    File Formats Manual                   resolver(5)

NAME
     resolver – resolver configuration file format

DESCRIPTION
     The resolver is a set of routines in the C library resolv(3) that provide
     access to the Internet Domain Name System (DNS).  A resolver configuration
     file contains information used to specify parameters for a DNS resolver
     client.  The file contains a list of keywords with values that provide
     various types of resolver information.

     Mac OS X supports a DNS search strategy that may involve multiple DNS
     resolver clients.  See the SEARCH STRATEGY section below for an overview of
     multi-client DNS search.

     Each DNS client is configured using the contents of a single configuration
     file of the format described below, or from a property list supplied from
     some other system configuration database.  Note that the /etc/resolv.conf
     file, which contains configuration for the default (or "primary") DNS
     resolver client, is maintained automatically by Mac OS X and should not be
     edited manually.  Changes to the DNS configuration should be made by using
     the Network Preferences panel.

     The different configuration options are given below.

   nameserver
     Internet address (in dot notation for IPv4 or in colon notation for IPv6)
     of a name server that the resolver should query.  The address may
     optionally have a trailing dot followed by a port number.  For example,
     10.0.0.17.55 specifies that the nameserver at 10.0.0.17 uses port 55.

     Up to MAXNS (currently 3) name servers may be listed, one per keyword.  If
     there are multiple servers, the resolver library queries them in the order
     listed.  The algorithm used is to try a name server, and if the query times
     out, try the next, until out of name servers, then repeat trying all the
     name servers until a maximum number of retries are made.

   port
     IP port number to be used for this resolver.  The default port is 53.  The
     port number for an individual nameserver may be specified as part of the
     nameserver address (see nameserver above) to override the default or the
     port number specified as a value for this keyword.

   domain
     Domain name associated with this resolver configuration.  This option is
     normally not required by the Mac OS X DNS search system when the resolver
     configuration is read from a file in the /etc/resolver directory.  In that
     case the file name is used as the domain name.  However, domain must be
     provided when there are multiple resolver clients for the same domain name,
     since multiple files may not exist having the same name.  See the SEARCH
     STRATEGY section for more details.

   search
     Search list for host-name lookup.  This parameter is only used by the
     "Super" DNS resolver, which manages the DNS search strategy amongst
     multiple DNS resolver clients.  Unqualified queries will be attempted using
     each component of the search list in turn until a match is found.  Note
     that this process may be slow and will generate a lot of network traffic if
     the servers for the listed domains are not local, and that queries will
     time out if no server is available for one of the domains.

     The search list is currently limited to six domains with a total of 256
     characters.

   search_order
     Only required for those clients that share a domain name with other
     clients.  Queries will be sent to these clients in order by ascending
     search_order value.  For example, this allows two clients for the ".local"
     domain, which is used by Apple's multicast DNS, but which may also be used
     at some sites as private DNS domain name.

   sortlist
     Sortlist allows addresses returned by gethostbyname to be sorted.  A
     sortlist is specified by IP address netmask pairs. The netmask is optional
     and defaults to the natural netmask of the net. The IP address and optional
     network pairs are separated by slashes. Up to 10 pairs may be specified.
     For example:

            sortlist 130.155.160.0/255.255.240.0 130.155.0.0

   timeout
     Specifies the total amount of time allowed for a name resolution.  This
     time interval is divided by the number of nameservers and the number of
     retries allowed for each nameserver.

   options
     Options allows certain internal resolver variables to be modified.  The
     syntax is:

     options option ...

     where option is one of the following:

     debug    sets RES_DEBUG in the resolver options.

     timeout:n
              sets the per-retry timeout for resolver queries.  The total
              timeout allowed for a query depends on the number of retries and
              the number of nameservers.  This value is ignored if a total
              timeout is specified using the timeout keyword (see above).

     ndots:n  Sets a threshold for the number of dots which must appear in a
              name given to res_query (see resolver(3)) before an initial
              absolute query will be made.  The default for n is ``1'', meaning
              that if there are any dots in a name, the name will be tried first
              as an absolute name before any search list elements are appended
              to it.

              The keyword and value must appear on a single line, and the
              keyword must start the line.  The value follows the keyword,
              separated by white space.

SEARCH STRATEGY
     Mac OS X uses a DNS search strategy that supports multiple DNS client
     configurations.  Each DNS client has its own set of nameserver addresses
     and its own set of operational parameters.  Each client can perform DNS
     queries and searches independent of other clients.  Each client has a
     symbolic name which is of the same format as a domain name, e.g.
     "apple.com".  A special meta-client, known as the "Super" DNS client acts
     as a router for DNS queries.  The Super client chooses among all available
     clients by finding a best match between the domain name given in a query
     and the names of all known clients.

     Queries for qualified names are sent using a client configuration that best
     matches the domain name given in the query.  For example, if there is a
     client named "apple.com", a search for "www.apple.com" would use the
     resolver configuration specified for that client.  The matching algorithm
     chooses the client with the maximum number of matching domain components.
     For example, if there are clients named "a.b.c", and "b.c", a search for
     "x.a.b.c" would use the "a.b.c" resolver configuration, while a search for
     "x.y.b.c" would use the "b.c" client.  If there are no matches, the
     configuration settings in the default client, generally corresponding to
     the /etc/resolv.conf file or to the "primary" DNS configuration on the
     system are used for the query.

     If multiple clients are available for the same domain name, the clients
     ordered according to a search_order value (see above).  Queries are sent to
     these resolvers in sequence by ascending value of search_order.

     The configuration for a particular client may be read from a file having
     the format described in this man page.  These are at present located by the
     system in the /etc/resolv.conf file and in the files found in the
     /etc/resolver directory.  However, client configurations are not limited to
     file storage.  The implementation of the DNS multi-client search strategy
     may also locate client configuratins in other data sources, such as the
     System Configuration Database.  Users of the DNS system should make no
     assumptions about the source of the configuration data.

FILES
     /etc/resolv.conf, /etc/resolver/*

SEE ALSO
     gethostbyname(2), getaddrinfo(3), resolver(3)

