SLAPO-MEMBEROF(5)              File Formats Manual             SLAPO-MEMBEROF(5)



NAME
       slapo-memberof - Reverse Group Membership overlay to slapd

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The memberof overlay to slapd(8) allows automatic reverse group
       membership maintenance.  Any time a group entry is modified, its members
       are modified as appropriate in order to keep a DN-valued "is member of"
       attribute updated with the DN of the group.


CONFIGURATION
       The config directives that are specific to the memberof overlay must be
       prefixed by memberof-, to avoid potential conflicts with directives
       specific to the underlying database or to other stacked overlays.


       overlay memberof
              This directive adds the memberof overlay to the current database;
              see slapd.conf(5) for details.


       The following slapd.conf configuration options are defined for the
       memberof overlay.


       memberof-group-oc_<group-oc>
              The value <group-oc> is the name of the objectClass that triggers
              the reverse group membership update.  It defaults to groupOfNames.


       memberof-member-ad_<member-ad>
              The value <member-ad> is the name of the attribute that contains
              the names of the members in the group objects; it must be DN-
              valued.  It defaults to member.


       memberof-memberof-ad_<memberof-ad>
              The value <memberof-ad> is the name of the attribute that contains
              the names of the groups an entry is member of; it must be DN-
              valued.  Its contents are automatically updated by the overlay.
              It defaults to memberOf.


       memberof-dn_<dn>
              The value <dn> contains the DN that is used as modifiersName for
              internal modifications performed to update the reverse group
              membership.  It defaults to the rootdn of the underlying database.


       memberof-dangling {ignore, drop, error}
              This option determines the behavior of the overlay when, during a
              modification, it encounters dangling references.  The default is
              ignore, which may leave dangling references.  Other options are
              drop, which discards those modifications that would result in
              dangling references, and error, which causes modifications that
              would result in dangling references to fail.


       memberof-dangling-error_<error-code>
              If memberof-dangling is set to error, this configuration parameter
              can be used to modify the response code returned in case of
              violation.  It defaults to "constraint violation", but other
              implementations are known to return "no such object" instead.


       memberof-refint {true|FALSE}
              This option determines whether the overlay will try to preserve
              referential integrity or not.  If set to TRUE, when an entry
              containing values of the "is member of" attribute is modified, the
              corresponding groups are modified as well.


       The memberof overlay may be used with any backend that provides full
       read-write functionality, but it is mainly intended for use with local
       storage backends. The maintenance operations it performs are internal to
       the server on which the overlay is configured and are never replicated.
       Replica servers should be configured with their own instances of the
       memberOf overlay if it is desired to maintain these memberOf attributes
       on the replicas.


FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapd-config(5), slapd(8).  The slapo-memberof(5) overlay
       supports dynamic configuration via back-config.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       This module was written in 2005 by Pierangelo Masarati for SysNet s.n.c.




