SLAPO-TRANSLUCENT(5)           File Formats Manual          SLAPO-TRANSLUCENT(5)



NAME
       slapo-translucent - Translucent Proxy overlay to slapd

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The Translucent Proxy overlay can be used with a backend database such as
       slapd-bdb(5) to create a "translucent proxy".  Entries retrieved from a
       remote LDAP server may have some or all attributes overridden, or new
       attributes added, by entries in the local database before being presented
       to the client.

       A search operation is first populated with entries from the remote LDAP
       server, the attributes of which are then overridden with any attributes
       defined in the local database. Local overrides may be populated with the
       add, modify , and modrdn operations, the use of which is restricted to
       the root user.

       A compare operation will perform a comparison with attributes defined in
       the local database record (if any) before any comparison is made with
       data in the remote database.

CONFIGURATION
       The Translucent Proxy overlay uses a proxied database, typically a (set
       of) remote LDAP server(s), which is configured with the options shown in
       slapd-ldap(5), slapd-meta(5) or similar.  These slapd.conf options are
       specific to the Translucent Proxy overlay; they must appear after the
       overlay directive that instantiates the translucent overlay.

       translucent_strict
              By default, attempts to delete attributes in either the local or
              remote databases will be silently ignored. The translucent_strict
              directive causes these modifications to fail with a Constraint
              Violation.

       translucent_no_glue
              This configuration option disables the automatic creation of
              "glue" records for an add or modrdn operation, such that all
              parents of an entry added to the local database must be created by
              hand. Glue records are always created for a modify operation.

       translucent_local <attr[,attr...]>
              Specify a list of attributes that should be searched for in the
              local database when used in a search filter. By default, search
              filters are only handled by the remote database. With this
              directive, search filters will be split into a local and remote
              portion, and local attributes will be searched locally.

       translucent_remote <attr[,attr...]>
              Specify a list of attributes that should be searched for in the
              remote database when used in a search filter. This directive
              complements the translucent_local directive. Attributes may be
              specified as both local and remote if desired.

       If neither translucent_local nor translucent_remote are specified, the
       default behavior is to search the remote database with the complete
       search filter. If only translucent_local is specified, searches will only
       be run on the local database. Likewise, if only translucent_remote is
       specified, searches will only be run on the remote database. In any case,
       both the local and remote entries corresponding to a search result will
       be merged before being returned to the client.


       translucent_bind_local
              Enable looking for locally stored credentials for simple bind when
              binding to the remote database fails.  Disabled by default.


       translucent_pwmod_local
              Enable RFC 3062 Password Modification extended operation on
              locally stored credentials.  The operation only applies to entries
              that exist in the remote database.  Disabled by default.


ACCESS CONTROL
       Access control is delegated to either the remote DSA(s) or to the local
       database backend for auth and write operations.  It is delegated to the
       remote DSA(s) and to the frontend for read operations.  Local access
       rules involving data returned by the remote DSA(s) should be designed
       with care.  In fact, entries are returned by the remote DSA(s) only based
       on the remote fraction of the data, based on the identity the operation
       is performed as.  As a consequence, local rules might only be allowed to
       see a portion of the remote data.


CAVEATS
       The Translucent Proxy overlay will disable schema checking in the local
       database, so that an entry consisting of overlay attributes need not
       adhere to the complete schema.

       Because the translucent overlay does not perform any DN rewrites,  the
       local and remote database instances must have the same suffix.  Other
       configurations will probably fail with No Such Object and other errors.

FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapd-config(5), slapd-ldap(5).



