SLAPD-MONITOR(5)               File Formats Manual              SLAPD-MONITOR(5)



NAME
       slapd-monitor - Monitor backend to slapd

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The monitor backend to slapd(8) is not an actual database; if enabled, it
       is automatically generated and dynamically maintained by slapd with
       information about the running status of the daemon.

       To inspect all monitor information, issue a subtree search with base
       cn=Monitor, requesting that attributes "+" and "*" are returned.  The
       monitor backend produces mostly operational attributes, and LDAP only
       returns operational attributes that are explicitly requested.  Requesting
       attribute "+" is an extension which requests all operational attributes.

CONFIGURATION
       These slapd.conf options apply to the monitor backend database.  That is,
       they must follow a "database monitor" line and come before any subsequent
       "backend" or "database" lines.

       As opposed to most databases, the monitor database can be instantiated
       only once, i.e. only one occurrence of "database monitor" can occur in
       the slapd.conf(5) file.  Moreover, the suffix of the database cannot be
       explicitly set by means of the suffix directive.  The suffix is
       automatically set to "cn=Monitor".

       The monitor database honors the rootdn and the rootpw directives, and the
       usual ACL directives, e.g. the access directive.

       Other database options are described in the slapd.conf(5) manual page.

USAGE
       The usage is:

       1) enable the monitor backend at configure:

              configure --enable-monitor

       2) activate the monitor database in the slapd.conf(5) file:

              database monitor

       3) add ACLs as detailed in slapd.access(5) to control access to the
       database, e.g.:

              access to dn.subtree="cn=Monitor"
                   by dn.exact="uid=Admin,dc=my,dc=org" write
                   by users read
                   by * none

       4) ensure that the core.schema file is loaded.
              The monitor backend relies on some standard track attributeTypes
              that must be already defined when the backend is started.

ACCESS CONTROL
       The monitor backend honors access control semantics as indicated in
       slapd.access(5), including the disclose access privilege, on all
       currently implemented operations.

KNOWN LIMITATIONS
       The monitor backend does not honor size/time limits in search operations.

FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapd-config(5), slapd.access(5), slapd(8), ldap(3).

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       OpenLDAP Software is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project
       <http://www.openldap.org/>.  OpenLDAP Software is derived from University
       of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.



