SLAPO-SYNCPROV(5)              File Formats Manual             SLAPO-SYNCPROV(5)



NAME
       slapo-syncprov - Sync Provider overlay to slapd

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The Sync Provider overlay implements the provider-side support for the
       LDAP Content Synchronization (RFC4533) as well as syncrepl replication
       support.  The overlay can be used with any backend that maintains
       entryCSN and entryUUID attributes for its entries. It also creates a
       contextCSN attribute in the root entry of the database.

       The contextCSN is updated for every write operation performed against the
       database. To reduce database contention, the contextCSN is only updated
       in memory. The value is written to the database on server shutdown and
       read into memory on startup, and maintained in memory thereafter.
       Checkpoints may be configured to write the contextCSN into the underlying
       database to minimize recovery time after an unclean shutdown.

       On databases that support inequality indexing, it is helpful to set an eq
       index on the entryCSN attribute when using this overlay.

CONFIGURATION
       These slapd.conf options apply to the Sync Provider overlay.  They should
       appear after the overlay directive.

       syncprov-checkpoint <ops> <minutes>
              After a write operation has succeeded, write the contextCSN to the
              underlying database if <ops> write operations or more than
              <minutes> time have passed since the last checkpoint.
              Checkpointing is disabled by default.

       syncprov-sessionlog <ops>
              Configures an in-memory session log for recording information
              about write operations made on the database.  The <ops> specifies
              the number of operations that are recorded in the log. All write
              operations (except Adds) are recorded in the log.  When using the
              session log, it is helpful to set an eq index on the entryUUID
              attribute in the underlying database.

       syncprov-nopresent TRUE | FALSE
              Specify that the Present phase of refreshing should be skipped.
              This value should only be set TRUE for a syncprov instance on top
              of a log database (such as one managed by the accesslog overlay).
              The default is FALSE.

       syncprov-reloadhint TRUE | FALSE
              Specify that the overlay should honor the reloadHint flag in the
              Sync Control. In OpenLDAP releases 2.3.11 and earlier the syncrepl
              consumer did not properly set this flag, so the overlay must
              ignore it. This option should be set TRUE when working with newer
              releases that properly support this flag. It must be set TRUE when
              using the accesslog overlay for delta-based syncrepl replication
              support.  The default is FALSE.

FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapd-config(5), slapo-accesslog(5).  OpenLDAP
       Administrator's Guide.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       OpenLDAP Software is developed and maintained by The OpenLDAP Project
       <http://www.openldap.org/>.  OpenLDAP Software is derived from University
       of Michigan LDAP 3.3 Release.



