SOCKETMAP_TABLE(5)             File Formats Manual            SOCKETMAP_TABLE(5)




NAME
       socketmap_table - Postfix socketmap table lookup client

SYNOPSIS
       postmap -q "string" socketmap:inet:host:port:name
       postmap -q "string" socketmap:unix:pathname:name

       postmap -q - socketmap:inet:host:port:name <inputfile
       postmap -q - socketmap:unix:pathname:name <inputfile

DESCRIPTION
       The Postfix mail system uses optional tables for address rewriting. mail
       routing or policy lookup.

       The Postfix socketmap client expects TCP endpoint names of the form
       inet:host:port:name, or UNIX-domain endpoints of the form
       unix:pathname:name.  In both cases, name specifies the name field in a
       socketmap client request (see "REQUEST FORMAT" below).

PROTOCOL
       Socketmaps use a simple protocol: the client sends one request, and the
       server sends one reply.  Each request and reply are sent as one netstring
       object.

REQUEST FORMAT
       The socketmap protocol supports only the lookup request.  The request has
       the following form:


       name <space> key
              Search the named socketmap for the specified key.

       Postfix will not generate partial search keys such as domain names
       without one or more subdomains, network addresses without one or more
       least-significant octets, or email addresses without the localpart,
       address extension or domain portion. This behavior is also found with
       cidr:, pcre:, and regexp: tables.

REPLY FORMAT
       The Postfix socketmap client requires that replies are not longer than
       100000 characters (not including the netstring encapsulation). Replies
       must have the following form:

       OK <space> data
              The requested data was found.

       NOTFOUND <space>
              The requested data was not found.

       TEMP <space> reason

       TIMEOUT <space> reason

       PERM <space> reason
              The request failed. The reason, if non-empty, is descriptive text.

SECURITY
       This map cannot be used for security-sensitive information,
       because neither the connection nor the server are authenticated.

SEE ALSO
       http://cr.yp.to/proto/netstrings.txt, netstring definition
       postconf(1), Postfix supported lookup tables
       postmap(1), Postfix lookup table manager
       regexp_table(5), format of regular expression tables
       pcre_table(5), format of PCRE tables
       cidr_table(5), format of CIDR tables

README FILES
       Use "postconf readme_directory" or "postconf html_directory" to locate
       this information.
       DATABASE_README, Postfix lookup table overview

BUGS
       The protocol limits are not yet configurable.

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

HISTORY
       Socketmap support was introduced with Postfix version 2.10.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



