FSFOREIGNSERVERS(4)           Device Drivers Manual          FSFOREIGNSERVERS(4)



NAME
       fsforeignservers - Xsan File System Foreign Server List

SYNOPSIS
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsforeignservers

DESCRIPTION
       The Xsan File System fsforeignservers file contains a list of systems
       acting as File System Foreign Server(s).  The volume Foreign Servers
       provide Xsan File System Services (FSS) to computers that do not belong
       to the Xsan cluster of the nodes acting as Foreign Servers.  A
       fsforeignservers file is not required, and can be used in place of or in
       addition to the fsnameservers file.  A Foreign Server will present only
       those file systems that are hosted locally on the Foreign Server.

       Note:  Instead of using fsforeignservers, you may now configure multiple
       clusters.  This is a more efficient and flexible way of configuring
       groups of file systems.  Clients can now configure access to multiple
       clusters by putting the addresses and cluster names of the NSS
       coordinators for all clusters into the fsnameservers file.  See the man
       page for fsnameservers.

       A Foreign Client is a computer that is accessing a Xsan File System via a
       Foreign Server.  Foreign Clients do not belong to the Xsan cluster per
       se, meaning that they cannot activate a file system or vote in elections.

       Typically, a fsforeignservers file entry is created on the client to
       provide the client computer access to a specific Xsan File System on a
       specific host.  This connection is limited to the Xsan File Systems local
       to that host.  If additional Xsan access is desired, an entry for the
       machine(s) hosting the desired file system must be added to the
       fsforeignservers file.  For failover configurations, both primary and
       secondary systems must be specified.  This file is needed only on the
       Foreign Client, it is not needed on the Foreign Server.  To determine
       what Xsan services are available, use the cvadmin(8) command with the -H
       host option to view active file systems for each host specified in the
       fsforeignservers file.

       The Foreign Client will use the IP address of the node that returns the
       address of the active FSM as the address to connect to for meta data
       traffic for that file system.

SYNTAX
       The format for the fsforeignservers is simple.  A fsforeignservers file
       contains one entry per line.  It contains the IP address or hostname to
       use as a Foreign Server.  The use of IP addresses is preferred to avoid
       problems associated with lookup system (eg., DNS or NIS) failures. The
       format of an fsforeignservers line is:

          IP address

       or

          HostName

       Where HostName is a host name or IP address of a host that can service
       queries for File System Services for file systems hosted directly on that
       host.

       Lines that contain white space only or that contain the comment token as
       the first non-white space character are ignored.

FILES
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsforeignservers

SEE ALSO
       cvadmin(8), cvfs(8), dpserver(4), fsm(8), fsmpm(8), fsnameservers(4),
       mount_acfs(8)



