FSMCLUSTER(4)                 Device Drivers Manual                FSMCLUSTER(4)



NAME
       fsmcluster - Xsan File System cluster configuration

SYNOPSIS
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsmcluster

DESCRIPTION
       The Xsan File System fsmcluster file describes cluster configuration
       information for the fsmpm(8) daemon and mount_acfs(8) command.  It is a
       list of keywords with values.

OVERVIEW
       Traditionally, Xsan volumes have been grouped into clusters which share a
       common name service providing visibility to clients. The clients would
       typically be able to mount these volumes using either direct SAN
       connections to the data LUNs or proxy access using the distributed LAN
       client connection to a Xsan gateway server. If a set of clients require
       access to a volume in a different cluster, an fsforeignservers(4) may be
       configured.

       The Xsan cluster and administrative domain feature allows more flexible
       configurations where sharing access between clusters is desired.
       Conversely, this feature may also be used to separate large clusters into
       multiple smaller clusters where sets of volumes may be grouped with
       clients that access only those volumes.

       Multiple volumes with the same name may coexist, provided they reside in
       separate clusters.

SYNTAX
       default_cluster cluster
              Specify the default cluster name for this machine.  If not
              specified, it will default to _cluster0.

       default_addom admin_domain
              Specify the default administrative domain name for this machine.
              An administrative domain is a group of named clusters.  If not
              specified, it will default to _addom0.

       Lines that contain white space only or that contain the comment token as
       the first non-white space character are ignored.

       The default administrative domain name and default cluster names are used
       when an fsm name is specified without a cluster name or administrative
       domain name, such as when mounting a Xsan Volume

Changing the Cluster or Administrative Domain Name
       Changing the cluster name on an MDC node affects the location of the file
       systems running on that node. Changing the cluster name on a coordinator
       node affects the services that are being advertised by that coordinator.
       All clients must unmount the file systems that are to be affected by the
       change.  Services must be stopped on the MDC and coordinator nodes,
       including both primary and secondary nodes of an HA pair.  The fsmcluster
       file may then be updated on all affected nodes including both nodes of an
       HA pair.  Start the services on the coordinator nodes first if these
       nodes are different than the MDC nodes.  Start the services on the MDC
       nodes next.  The file systems are now available for client mounts at
       their new cluster location.

       When converting a system to HA, if the first node has an fsmcluster file,
       the second node must have one as well, prior to attempting the
       conversion.

FILES
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsmcluster

SEE ALSO
       cvadmin(8), fsforeignservers(4), fsnameservers(4), fsmpm(8),
       mount_acfs(8)



