FSMLIST(4)                    Device Drivers Manual                   FSMLIST(4)



NAME
       fsmlist - Xsan File System FSM Auto-Start List

SYNOPSIS
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsmlist

DESCRIPTION
       The Xsan File System fsmlist file defines for the fsmpm(8) daemon the
       File System Manager (FSM) daemons to start.  When the file does not
       exist, the fsmpm will not start any FSM daemons.

SYNTAX
       The format for the fsmlist is simple.  On each line is the name of one
       local volume to start, and an optional priority number from zero (0) to
       nine (9).  The name must not include cluster-naming information.

       The optional priority number is used when there is a redundant metadata
       controller (MDC).  A priority of zero makes the specified FSM top
       priority and any number greater than zero means lower priority.  See
       cvfs_failover(8) for details about setting up a failover-capable file
       system service.

       The format of an fsmlist line has the following format:

              File_System_Name [priority]

       File_System_Name is the public name of the volume used in the mount(8)
       command, and as the prefix for the configuration file (see
       snfs_config(5)).

       The priority field is used to designate a priority when there are
       redundant fsm daemons for a volume.  Only one may be active at a time and
       the fsmpm daemon executes failover votes to determine the daemon to
       activate.  The priority value helps the fsmpm determine, all other things
       being equal, which service to activate.

       The previous version of fsmlist(4) was documented as requiring a dot (.)
       character as an argument before the priority argument, for compatibility
       with even older versions of fsmlist(4).  In reality, it was optional.
       The first argument will be ignored if it is just the dot (.) character.

       Lines that contain white space only or that contain the comment token as
       the first non-white space character are ignored.

FILES
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsmlist

SEE ALSO
       cvfs(8), cvfs_failover(8), fsm(8), fsmpm(8), fsnameservers(4), mount(8),
       snfs_config(5)



