FSNAMESERVERS(4)              Device Drivers Manual             FSNAMESERVERS(4)



NAME
       fsnameservers - Xsan File System Name Server List

SYNOPSIS
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsnameservers

DESCRIPTION
       The Xsan File System fsnameservers file describes to the fsmpm(8) daemon
       which machines are serving as File System Name Server coordinator(s) for
       the  Xsan cluster.  The volume name coordinators are a critical component
       of the Xsan File System Services (FSS). One of the principal functions of
       the coordinator is to manage failover voting in a high availability
       configuration. Therefore it is crucial to choose highly reliable systems
       as the coordinators. Redundancy is provided by listing multiple entries
       in the fsnameservers file, one entry per line.  When Xsan services are
       started on a host, the fsmpm daemon sends a heartbeat to each coordinator
       in the list. The first response received determines the primary
       coordinator for that client in a given cluster.  The remaining
       coordinators are backup coordinators and will be used if the primary is
       lost.  It is recommended to configure at least two systems per cluster to
       utilize this redundancy benefit.  The systems chosen may also be
       configured for the File System Manager (FSM) services but this is not
       required.

       The fsnameservers files on the coordinator hosts should include the host
       names or IP addresses of all of the coordinators including its own. The
       fsnameservers files on the client and MDC hosts normally contain all
       these addresses as well, but these hosts will function normally with the
       address of at least one active coordinator.

       If you are configuring multiple clusters, it is best practices to include
       the cluster and the administrative_domain on the same line as the IP
       address of each coordinator (see below).

       See the fsmcluster(4) man page for a discussion on Xsan clusters and
       administrative domains.

       If fsnameservers does not exist then the system will operate as a "local"
       filesystem representing both client and server. It will not communicate
       with any other Xsan product on the network unless an fsforeignservers(4)
       file is configured.  A local filesystem may be desired when no SAN
       sharing is required.

       The fsnameservers file is also used to specify the preferred metadata
       network(s) used for Xsan.  That is, if an address in the fsnameservers
       file is on IP network x, then network x will be used to carry Xsan
       metadata traffic, if possible. Networks available over other interfaces
       will be used if there is no connectivity from a client to the FSM on a
       preferred network.  A network other than preferred will also be selected
       if this network is directly connected (on the same subnet) and none of
       the preferred networks are directly connected.  Multiple, redundant
       metadata networks can be created by using additional network interfaces
       on every system; each coordinator is then specified in fsnameservers
       multiple times, once for each of its metadata-network addresses.

       It is possible to filter the networks or IP addresses that are advertised
       to clients using the snfs_metadata_network_filter.json configuration
       file. See the snfs_metadata_network_filter.json(5) man page for details.
       This capability is only offerred on Linux systems.

       Proxy coordinators can be configured by specifying a masklength along
       with the IP address.  A proxy coordinator acts as a coordinator for other
       clients on the same subnet, relaying information between the clients and
       the real coordinators.  For a group of clients on the same subnet, this
       will keep the underlying heartbeat traffic localized to the subnet, and
       only the proxies will communicate with the real coordinators.  When
       configured, clients on the same subnet as the proxy will prefer to use
       the proxy coordinator for their primary coordinator.  If the proxy
       coordinators are non-responsive, clients will fall back to using the
       normal coordinators.

UPDATING fsnameservers
       NOTE The following applies to Xsan coordinators, clients and MDCs that
       have been updated to a level that supports this procedure. Verify that
       this text is present in this man page on these nodes before proceeding.

       If a set of coordinators for a cluster is being replaced, the old
       coordinators should remain active through the transition.  The first step
       is to synchronize the new and old coordinators.  Populate the
       fsnameservers file on all coordinators with the IP addresses of all the
       coordinators. Then start or restart services on all coordinators.  Once
       this is done, all clients and MDCs will dynamically learn the location of
       the new coordinators through the NSS protocol.  This can be verified with
       the coord subcommand of the cvadmin utility. You should see entries for
       the old and new coordinators.  Next, update all of the clients and MDCs
       fsnameservers files to contain only the addresses of just the new
       coordinators.  There is no urgency to update the clients and MDCs as long
       as at least one of the old coordinators remains active.  When all the
       client and MDC fsnameservers files have been updated, the old
       coordinators can be taken off line. The clients and MDCs will now switch
       over to the new coordinators for primary and secondary.  The
       fsnameservers file on the new coordinators should now be updated to
       contain only the new coordinator names or addresses. There is no need to
       restart services on any of the clients or MDCs.

       The process is similar if only a subset of the coordinators is being
       replaced.  If, for example, a coordinator node failed, a new coordinator
       node can be brought on line with the new coordinator configuration in its
       fsnameservers file. Next, the existing coordinators should have their
       fsnameservers files updated. Start or restart services on all
       coordinators.  Then, as above, update all the client and MDC
       fsnameservers files.

SYNTAX
       The format for the fsnameservers is simple. It contains the IP address or
       the hostname to use as either a primary or a secondary coordinator. The
       use of IP addresses is preferred to avoid problems associated with lookup
       system (eg., DNS or NIS) failures. The format of an fsnameservers line
       is:

              host[/masklength][ ][@[cluster[/admin_domain]]]

              The host is a host name or IP address of a host that can
              coordinate queries and failover votes for the File System
              Services.  The optional cluster and admin_domain fields specify
              the name of the cluster and administrative domain to which the
              coordinator belongs.  To specify that host is a coordinator for
              more than one cluster, there must be a line for each cluster.

              If only host is specified, the system will attempt to identify the
              cluster based on responses from the host.  If it responds as an
              NSS1.X coordinator, it will be added to the default cluster,
              @_cluster0/_addom0.  If it responds as an NSS2 coordinator, the
              coordinator will give the client its list of clusters and all the
              coordinators for each of those clusters.  If you are running a
              multi-cluster configuration, it is highly recommended that you
              specify the cluster for each coordinator in the fsnameservers
              file.

              If admin_domain is not specified, it will use the default name
              from fsmcluster(4).

              If cluster is not specified, but the @ is present, i. e.,

                     host@
                     host_@

              it will use the default name from fsmcluster(4).

              The optional /masklength configures host as a proxy coordinator
              for the specified subnet.

       Lines that contain white space only or that contain the comment token as
       the first non-white space character are ignored.

FILES
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsnameservers

SEE ALSO
       cvfs(8), cvadmin(8), snfs_config(5),
       snfs_metadata_network_filter.json(5), fsforeignservers(4), fsm(8),
       fsmpm(8), fsmcluster(4), mount_acfs(8)



