AMT(8)                       System Manager's Manual                      AMT(8)

NAME
     amt – Abstract Machine Test Utility

SYNOPSIS (NOW DEPRECATED)
     amt [-m] [-p] [-q] [-s]

DESCRIPTION
     The amt utility is used to verify that the low level functions necessary to
     enforce requirements of the Controlled Access Protection Profile (CAPP) are
     working correctly.

     The amt utility must be executed with sufficient privileges and performs
     the following tests:

     Memory Read and Write
             This test allocates between 5% to 10% of physical memory and writes
             data to it, then reads the memory back to ensure the values written
             remain unchanged.

     Memory Separation and Protection
             This test ensures that user space programs cannot read and write to
             areas of memory that is protected or is not shared.

     Privileged Instructions
             This test ensures that the enforcement of the property that
             privileged instructions should only be in supervisor mode is still
             in effect.  The set of privileged instructions tested to confirm
             this is architecture dependent.

     The options are as follows:

     -m      Skip the memory test.

     -p      Skip the privileged instructions test.

     -q      Suppress the screen output.

     -s      Skip the memory separation and protection test.

EXIT CODES
     <0      An error occured in executing the tests.

     =0      All the tests passed.

     >0      The number of tests that failed or were skipped.

NOTES
     The overall result (pass or fail) is logged in the audit trail and system
     log.  The auditd(8) daemon must already be running for the results to be
     stored in the audit trail file.

     One of the above test may be skipped without getting a negative result.  A
     test is skipped either with one of the above command-line options or
     automatically if there is not a test compatiable with the Target Of
     Evaluation (TOE). The audit administrator may want to perform the memory
     test only on startup since it can have large negative impact on the system
     performance.

SEE ALSO
     audit(2) auditd(8) syslog(3) syslogd(8)

