APACHECTL(8)                        apachectl                       APACHECTL(8)





NAME
       apachectl - Apache HTTP Server Control Interface


SYNOPSIS
       When acting in pass-through mode, apachectl can take all the arguments
       available for the httpd binary.


       apachectl [ httpd-argument ]


       When acting in SysV init mode, apachectl takes simple, one-word commands,
       defined below.


       apachectl command



SUMMARY
       apachectl is a front end to the Apache HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
       server. It is designed to help the administrator control the functioning
       of the Apache httpd daemon.


       The apachectl script can operate in two modes. First, it can act as a
       simple front-end to the httpd command that simply sets any necessary
       environment variables and then invokes httpd, passing through any command
       line arguments. Second, apachectl can act as a SysV init script, taking
       simple one-word arguments like start, restart, and stop, and translating
       them into appropriate signals to httpd.


       If your Apache installation uses non-standard paths, you will need to
       edit the apachectl script to set the appropriate paths to the httpd
       binary. You can also specify any necessary httpd command line arguments.
       See the comments in the script for details.


       The apachectl script returns a 0 exit value on success, and >0 if an
       error occurs. For more details, view the comments in the script.



OPTIONS
       Only the SysV init-style options are defined here. Other arguments are
       defined on the httpd manual page.



       start  Loads the org.apache.httpd launchd job.

       stop, graceful-stop
              Unloads the org.apache.httpd launchd job.

       restart, graceful
              Unloads, then loads the org.apache.httpd launchd job.

       fullstatus
              Displays a full status report from mod_status. For this to work,
              you need to have mod_status enabled on your server and a text-
              based browser such as lynx available on your system. The URL used
              to access the status report can be set by editing the STATUSURL
              variable in the script.

       status Displays a brief status report. Similar to the fullstatus option,
              except that the list of requests currently being served is
              omitted.

       configtest
              Run a configuration file syntax test. It parses the configuration
              files and either reports Syntax Ok or detailed information about
              the particular syntax error. This is equivalent to apachectl -t.


       The following option was available in earlier versions but has been
       removed.



       startssl
              To start httpd with SSL support, you should edit your
              configuration file to include the relevant directives and then use
              the normal apachectl start.




