atsutil(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  atsutil(8)

NAME
     atsutil – font registration system utility

SYNOPSIS
     atsutil fonts [-list | -verify]

     atsutil databases [-remove | -removeUser]

     atsutil server [-ping | -shutdown]

     atsutil help

DESCRIPTION
     atsutil tool controls some aspects of the font registration system.  It may
     be used to modify font auto activation settings, font protection settings,
     remove font registration databases and caches, or restart the font
     registration daemon.

     fonts enumerates all fonts available to processes in the OS. It also
     performs a consistency check of the fonts available via font management
     APIs.

     databases will remove fontd System or User databases along with any cache
     files. Removing databases may cause the loss of font registration state:
     fonts activated outside the standard font directories, font faces disabled,
     and font libraries. New databases will be regenerated from fonts installed
     the standard font directories after the user logs out, restarts, or the
     fontd server is restarted.

     server queries the status of fontd or shutdowns the fontd.  Shutting down
     the fontd will spawn a new fontd.  Shutting down the server is NOT
     recommended and will likely lead to misrendered text or application
     crashes.

OPTIONS
     fonts [-list | -verify]
     -list lists and performs a consistency check on registered fonts.
     -verify performs consistency a check on registered fonts.

     databases [-remove | -removeUser]
     -remove remove fontd databases for active user and system (used when no one
     is logged in and some background processes).
     -removeUser remove fontd databases for the active user only.

     server [-ping | -shutdown]
     -ping query running fontd.
     -shutdown shutdown fontd and spawn a new fontd. NOTE: this action is not
     recommended. See above.

SEE ALSO
     fontd(8)

HISTORY
     atsutil first appeared in MacOS X 10.5.

