CRON(8)                      System Manager's Manual                     CRON(8)

NAME
     cron – daemon to execute scheduled commands (Vixie Cron)

SYNOPSIS
     cron [-s] [-o] [-x debugflag[,...]]

DESCRIPTION
     The cron utility is launched by launchd(8) when it sees the existence of
     /etc/crontab or files in /usr/lib/cron/tabs.  There should be no need to
     start it manually.  See /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.vix.cron.plist
     for details.

     The cron utility searches /usr/lib/cron/tabs for crontab files which are
     named after accounts in /etc/passwd; crontabs found are loaded into memory.
     The cron utility also searches for /etc/crontab which is in a different
     format (see crontab(5)).

     The cron utility then wakes up every minute, examining all stored crontabs,
     checking each command to see if it should be run in the current minute.
     When executing commands, any output is mailed to the owner of the crontab
     (or to the user named in the MAILTO environment variable in the crontab, if
     such exists).

     Additionally, cron checks each minute to see if its spool directory's
     modification time (or the modification time on /etc/crontab) has changed,
     and if it has, cron will then examine the modification time on all crontabs
     and reload those which have changed.  Thus cron need not be restarted
     whenever a crontab file is modified.  Note that the crontab(1) command
     updates the modification time of the spool directory whenever it changes a
     crontab.

     Available options:

     -s      Enable special handling of situations when the GMT offset of the
             local timezone changes, such as the switches between the standard
             time and daylight saving time.

             The jobs run during the GMT offset changes time as intuitively
             expected.  If a job falls into a time interval that disappears (for
             example, during the switch from standard time) to daylight saving
             time or is duplicated (for example, during the reverse switch),
             then it is handled in one of two ways:

             The first case is for the jobs that run every at hour of a time
             interval overlapping with the disappearing or duplicated interval.
             In other words, if the job had run within one hour before the GMT
             offset change (and cron was not restarted nor the crontab(5)
             changed after that) or would run after the change at the next hour.
             They work as always, skip the skipped time or run in the added time
             as usual.

             The second case is for the jobs that run less frequently.  They are
             executed exactly once, they are not skipped nor executed twice
             (unless cron is restarted or the user's crontab(5) is changed
             during such a time interval).  If an interval disappears due to the
             GMT offset change, such jobs are executed at the same absolute
             point of time as they would be in the old time zone.  For example,
             if exactly one hour disappears, this point would be during the next
             hour at the first minute that is specified for them in crontab(5).

     -o      Disable the special handling of situations when the GMT offset of
             the local timezone changes, to be compatible with the old (default)
             behavior.  If both options -o and -s are specified, the option
             specified last wins.

     -x debugflag[,...]
             Enable writing of debugging information to standard output.  One or
             more of the following comma separated debugflag identifiers must be
             specified:

             bit       currently not used
             ext       make the other debug flags more verbose
             load      be verbose when loading crontab files
             misc      be verbose about miscellaneous one-off events
             pars      be verbose about parsing individual crontab lines
             proc      be verbose about the state of the process, including all
                       of its offspring
             sch       be verbose when iterating through the scheduling
                       algorithms
             test      trace through the execution, but do not perform any
                       actions

FILES
     /usr/lib/cron/tabs  Directory for personal crontab files

SEE ALSO
     crontab(1), launchctl(1), crontab(5), launchd.plist(5), launchd(8)

AUTHORS
     Paul Vixie ⟨paul@vix.com⟩

