OPEN(8)                      System Manager's Manual                     OPEN(8)

NAME
     csnameddata – displays and sets information for the the CSNamedData service

SYNOPSIS
     csnameddata [-v] [--verbose] [-f] [--full] command [options] [command]

DESCRIPTION
     The csnameddata command displays information for and sets and controls the
     service which provides CSNamedData.  The options are as follows:

     -f         when displaying an item, don't truncate the data display

     -full      when displaying an item, don't truncate the data display

     -v         display more verbose status

     --verbose  display more verbose status

COMMANDS
     Each command and any arguments are handled.  Multiple commands may be
     passed in one invokation.

     get key         fetches the data for the given key from the service and
                     displays it.  If -f is passed, the full data will be
                     displayed, otherwise it will be truncated if longer than 64
                     characters.

     set key value   sets the data for the given key.  If the first character of
                     value is '/', then it is assumed to be a file and the
                     contents of the file will be read and set as the value,
                     otherwise value will be treated as a string.

     flush key       flushes any data set for the given key.  This only affects
                     future callers; any previous processes which have fetched
                     the value will still see the previous value.

     flushAll        flushes all data in the service.  This only affects future
                     callers; any previous processes which have fetched the
                     value will still see the previous value.

     showall         displays all of the known keys and values from the service.
                     If -f is passed, then the full data will be displayed,
                     otherwise it will be truncated if longer than 64
                     characters.

     statistics      displays usage statistics.

EXAMPLES
     csnameddata get com.apple.sample

     displays whatever value, if any, is set for the key "com.apple.sample"

     csnameddata set com.apple.sample "This is a string"

     sets the value of the key "com.apple.sample" to the 16 character string
     "This is a string".

     csnameddata flushall

     flushes all data in the service

HISTORY
     First appeared in macOS 11.1

