CSUNIQUE(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 CSUNIQUE(8)

NAME
     csunique – modify the UUIDs of CoreStorage metadata objects

SYNOPSIS
     csunique [-v | --verbose] [-n | --dry-run] [-I | --include include]
              [-X | --exclude exclude] device ...

DESCRIPTION
     The csunique utility can rewrite CoreStorage logical volume group metadata,
     changing object UUIDs.  All CoreStorage objects are uniquely identified by
     UUIDs.  This can be useful when copying an initial "canned image" onto
     multiple machines to establish these as independent volumes.

     The device parameter(s) should be path(s) to the "raw" (character special)
     disk device(s) such as /dev/rdisk1s1 that constitute the CoreStorage
     logical volume group.  If you specify a "non-raw" (block special) path such
     as /dev/disk1s1, or just the disk name such as disk1s1, it will
     automatically be converted to the corresponding raw disk device
     (/dev/rdisk1s1).

     The options are as follows:

           -v      Output verbose progress information of each step and the UUID
                   re-mappings.

           -n      Operates in "dry run" mode; no changes are made to the on-
                   disk data.

           -I      Specifies an additional class of UUID objects that should be
                   modified.

           -X      Specifies a class of UUID objects that should not be
                   modified.  By default all UUIDs will be changed.

     The classes of CoreStorage UUID objects that can be included or excluded
     from modification by csunique are indicated using the following characters:

           f       logical volume family (LVF)

           g       logical volume group (LVG)

           l       logical volume (LV)

           p       physical volume (PV)

           w       MLV wipekey

     csunique processes/transforms the CoreStorage metadata in a number of
     steps:

           1.   Firstly, an initial fsck_cs is performed to ensure the source
                structure is consistent;

           2.   If the LVG is currently live and mounted by the kext it is
                temporarily "frozen";

           3.   If the disk partitions are of type Apple_CoreStorage then they
                are switched offline (which dissociates the kext from the old
                metadata);

           4.   The CoreStorage metadata is locally parsed and loaded;

           5.   All object UUIDs are located, and new UUIDs generated for
                classes as set by the -I and -X options;

           6.   UUIDs are re-written to disk;

           7.   A post-modification fsck_cs is performed to ensure the final
                structure is consistent;

           8.   Finally, any disk partitions taken offline are restored to
                Apple_CoreStorage (which will reload the kext with the new UUID
                metadata).

DIAGNOSTICS
     The csunique utility exits with 0 if the CoreStorage logical volume group
     was modified as directed, and with >0 if it was unable to do so.  Any error
     message is written to stderr.

BUGS
     csunique cannot modify the LVF UUID if there are any encrypted LVs inside
     it.  Any mounted LVs must be manually unmounted before invocation.

HISTORY
     The csunique utility first appeared in OS X 10.8.1.

