cups-lpd(8)                        Apple Inc.                        cups-lpd(8)



NAME
       cups-lpd - receive print jobs and report printer status to lpd clients
       (deprecated)

SYNOPSIS
       cups-lpd [ -h hostname[:port] ] [ -n ] [ -o option=value ]

DESCRIPTION
       cups-lpd is the CUPS Line Printer Daemon ("LPD") mini-server that
       supports legacy client systems that use the LPD protocol.  cups-lpd does
       not act as a standalone network daemon but instead operates using any of
       the Internet "super-servers" such as inetd(8), launchd(8), and
       systemd(8).

OPTIONS
       -h hostname[:port]
            Sets the CUPS server (and port) to use.

       -n   Disables reverse address lookups; normally cups-lpd will try to
            discover the hostname of the client via a reverse DNS lookup.

       -o name=value
            Inserts options for all print queues. Most often this is used to
            disable the "l" filter so that remote print jobs are filtered as
            needed for printing; the inetd(8) example below sets the "document-
            format" option to "application/octet-stream" which forces
            autodetection of the print file format.

CONFORMING TO
       cups-lpd does not enforce the restricted source port number specified in
       RFC 1179, as using restricted ports does not prevent users from
       submitting print jobs.  While this behavior is different than standard
       Berkeley LPD implementations, it should not affect normal client
       operations.

       The output of the status requests follows RFC 2569, Mapping between LPD
       and IPP Protocols. Since many LPD implementations stray from this
       definition, remote status reporting to LPD clients may be unreliable.

ERRORS
       Errors are sent to the system log.

FILES
       /etc/inetd.conf
       /etc/xinetd.d/cups-lpd
       /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/org.cups.cups-lpd.plist

NOTES
       The cups-lpd program is deprecated and will no longer be supported in a
       future feature release of CUPS.

   PERFORMANCE
       cups-lpd performs well with small numbers of clients and printers.
       However, since a new process is created for each connection and since
       each process must query the printing system before each job submission,
       it does not scale to larger configurations.  We highly recommend that
       large configurations use the native IPP support provided by CUPS instead.

   SECURITY
       cups-lpd currently does not perform any access control based on the
       settings in cupsd.conf(5) or in the hosts.allow(5) or hosts.deny(5) files
       used by TCP wrappers.  Therefore, running cups-lpd on your server will
       allow any computer on your network (and perhaps the entire Internet) to
       print to your server.

       While xinetd(8) has built-in access control support, you should use the
       TCP wrappers package with inetd(8) to limit access to only those
       computers that should be able to print through your server.

       cups-lpd is not enabled by the standard CUPS distribution.  Please
       consult with your operating system vendor to determine whether it is
       enabled by default on your system.

EXAMPLE
       If you are using inetd(8), add the following line to the inetd.conf file
       to enable the cups-lpd mini-server:

           printer stream tcp nowait lp /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd cups-lpd \
               -o document-format=application/octet-stream


       Note: If you are using Solaris 10 or higher, you must run the
       inetdconv(1m) program to register the changes to the inetd.conf file.

       CUPS includes configuration files for launchd(8), systemd(8), and
       xinetd(8).  Simply enable the cups-lpd service using the corresponding
       control program.

SEE ALSO
       cups(1), cupsd(8), inetconv(1m), inetd(8), launchd(8), xinetd(8), CUPS
       Online Help (http://localhost:631/help), RFC 2569

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.



