CVFS(8)                      System Manager's Manual                     CVFS(8)



NAME
       /etc/init.d/cvfs - Initialization script for Xsan File System components

SYNOPSIS
       service cvfs {start|stop|restart|fullstop}


DESCRIPTION
       The Xsan File System can be controlled by the system init(8) mechanism.
       For more information on the init.d services reference the init(8) and
       chkconfig(8) man pages.

       This initialization script responds to the normal start, stop and restart
       commands.  This allows the Xsan File System to be started and stopped at
       any time, and the fullstop option unloads CVFS kernel modules.

       Note: Take care not to trigger an HA reset action on a server when it has
       been configured for High Availability (HA).  For more information about
       HA reference the snhamgr(8) man page.

       See the init(8) or chkconfig(8) man pages for additional startup and
       shutdown options.

       On Solaris clients, StorNext File System Services have been integrated
       into the Solaris service management facility, smf.  The cvfs script is
       located in /System/Library/Filesystems/acfs.fs/Contents/bin.

Starting Xsan Services
       The service cvfs start command should be executed only after local file
       systems are mounted and the network is initialized.  The following steps
       are executed:
          — CVFS kernel modules are loaded.
          — Base Xsan services are started.  This includes the Xsan portmapper
            service and any needed HBA drivers.
          — Any Xsan metadata servers included in the fsmlist(4) file are
            started automatically.
          — Xsan volumes included in the systems fstab(5) or vfstab(4) file are
            mounted.
          — Xsan Storage Manager (SNSM) components are started if they are
            installed.

Stopping Xsan Services
       The service cvfs stop command should be executed before the network is
       brought down and before the local filesystems are unmounted.  The
       following steps are executed:
          — SNSM components are stopped.
          — All Xsan volumes are unmounted.
          — All Xsan server components are shut down.

       The kernel modules are not unloaded unless the fullstop option is used.

FILES
       /etc/init.d/cvfs

SEE ALSO
       mount(8), snhamgr(8), fsmlist(4), vfstab(4), fstab(5), init.d(7),
       chkconfig(8)



