CVMKFS(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   CVMKFS(8)



NAME
       cvmkfs - Initialize a Xsan Volume

SYNOPSIS
       cvmkfs [-GF] [-a key] [-n ninode[k|m|g]] [-r[-e][-m]] [-Q]
              [-R [date:]time] [-X] [volume_name]

DESCRIPTION
       cvmkfs will initialize a Xsan volume optionally using volume_name as the
       name. If no name is supplied, a list of volumes configured will be
       presented. Active file systems may not be re-initialized. The user will
       be prompted for a confirmation before initializing the volume.

       WARNING: This will destroy ANY existing volume data for the named Xsan
       volume!

OPTIONS
       -a key Set the affinity of the root directory to key.

       -e     When remaking a managed file system in preparation for restoring
              all metadata from a metadata archive, the -e option specifies that
              the FSM should restore all user file extents. When this option is
              not specified, files are truncated which results in them being
              restored from backup.  Use this option when the metadata disks
              must be restored but all disks containing user data are intact.
              This option can only be used in conjunction with the -r option and
              is ignored when restoring unmanaged file systems.

              This option also causes thin provision unmapping work to be
              skipped for all stripegroups that can contain user data.

       -G     Bypass "Press return to continue..." type prompts.  These prompts
              are useful on Windows systems to give the user a chance to read
              the error message before the window disappears.

       -F     Force. This option has been deprecated and replaced with -X.  It
              will cause the same action as that option.

       -f     Failure mode - do not fail if there is a configuration mismatch or
              other serious abnormal condition detected.  Note:  This option is
              not intended for general use.  Use only if instructed by Apple
              support. Incorrect use may result in an unusable file system.

       -m     When using the -r option to remake a file system in preparation
              for a metadata restore from the metadata archive, cvmkfs will
              issue an error message and exit without modifying the file system
              if the stripe groups are defined to hold both metadata and user
              data. It does this because it is possible for the restore
              procedure to inadvertently allocate disk space for metadata that
              conflicts with user data, resulting in file corruption.  The -m
              option can be used in conjunction with the -r option to override
              this behavior and force cvmkfs to remake the file system despite
              the risk of corruption. Use this option only if instructed by
              Quantum support.

       -n ninode[k|m|g]]
              Pre-allocate ninode inodes.
              NOTE: This option has been deprecated.

       -Q     This option causes cvmkfs to print qustat statistics just before
              exiting.

       -R [date:]time
              Remake the file system in preparation for restoring all metadata
              as it existed at the given date and time. The format for the
              date:time argument is yyyy-mm-dd:hh:mm:ss, for example, "-R
              2016-08-24:08:00:00". If the date is not specified, then today is
              assumed. This option is only valid for managed file systems when
              metadataArchiveDays is set to a non-zero value in the
              configuration file and it cannot be used with the -e option to
              restore file extents. This "historical" restore will truncate all
              files, forcing all data to be restored from backup.

              WARNING: It is highly recommended that Quantum Technical Support
              be contacted before using this option. If used improperly, data
              could be lost.

       -r     Remake the file system in preparation for restoring all metadata
              from a metadata archive.  This option can only be used when
              metadataArchive is set to true in the configuration file and a
              metadata archive exists that is current as of the last time the
              corresponding FSM was stopped.

              The remake option can be useful for disaster recovery or for
              metadata and journal stripe group reconfiguration.

              For a managed file system, the default behavior is to truncate all
              of the user data files with the expectation that they have been
              backed up to another media such as tape. The files will be
              reloaded when next accessed or through other storage manager
              actions. It is possible to override this behavior by specifying -e
              on a managed file system. In this case the same cautions as
              specified below for unmanaged file systems apply.

              For an unmanaged file system, there is no backup copy of the user
              data.  The -e option can be specified, but it is ignored and is
              forced on.  The metadata that is restored contains the disk
              addresses of the user data.  This means that all stripe groups
              that contain user data must be left completely intact.  Therefore,
              all thin provision unmap work is skipped for all stripegroups that
              can contain user data.

              The following statements apply to both managed and unmanaged file
              systems.  The metadata and journal stripe groups are remade from
              scratch.  This allows the underlying storage on these stripe
              groups to be replaced and stripe group attributes to be changed.
              Metadata stripe groups can be converted to data stripe groups.
              New stripe groups can be added. The journal stripe group can
              change.

              WARNING: It is highly recommended that Quantum Technical Support
              be contacted before using this option. If used improperly, data
              could be lost or corrupted.

       -T     Normally on linux, cvmkfs opens all devices in the configuration
              file to check for thin provisioned devices.  This is done to
              unmap/trim any prior mappings on those devices that are eliminated
              by this cvmkfs command.  This "thin provision work" can be
              bypassed using the -T option.

       -U     Do a check for disks that are included in the file system that is
              being made to see if they are currently in use in another file
              system that is visible to the cluster. In some configurations,
              this may take a long time.  If there are disks in use, the
              operation is aborted.

       -X     Use expert mode to automatically answer all prompts for
              verification.  This is useful for running cvmkfs as part of a
              script or automated test.  The failure option can be used instead,
              but with the failure option no configuration transformation
              validation is done and is therefore not recommended.  With the -X
              option, all of the normal checks are performed and if an error is
              detected, the command exits with appropriate message and status.

FILES
       /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/*

SEE ALSO
       cvfs(8), snfs_config(5)



