CVUPDATEFS(8)                System Manager's Manual               CVUPDATEFS(8)



NAME
       cvupdatefs - Commit a Xsan Volume configuration change

SYNOPSIS
       cvupdatefs [-bdfFhlnSv] [-c pathname] [-M] [-R NewVolName] [VolName]
              [VolPath]

DESCRIPTION
       The cvupdatefs program is used to commit a configuration change to a Xsan
       volume. Possible configuration changes include storage pool list
       modification as well as volume journal modification.

       The volume update program must be run on the machine that the File System
       Manager (FSM) is running on. This utility reads the configuration file
       and compares the configuration file against the current on-disk metadata
       configuration. If there are differences between the configuration and the
       on-disk metadata, the utility will display what changes need to be made
       to bring the volume metadata up to date.

       NOTE: All metadata modification must be made on a stopped volume. It is
       recommended that the volume is stopped and cvfsck(8) has been run before
       making any changes to a volume configuration.  Maintaining a backup of
       the original volume configuration file is also strongly recommended.

       When a successful update is completed, the new configuration file is
       stored in the on-disk metadata and the previous one is saved in
       /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/<volume_name>/config_history/*.cfg.<TIMESTAMP>

OPTIONS
       -b     Build info - log the build information.

       -c pathname
              Provide a specific path to the previous configuration file that is
              to be used.  This option is used to force cvfsck to be run as a
              sub-process to insure that the volume meta data is consistent
              prior to doing a capacity or stripegroup expansion, or any journal
              changes.

       -d     Debug - use to turn on internal debugging only.

       -F     Force. This option has been deprecated and replaced with -y.  It
              will cause the same action as that option.

       -f     Failure mode - do not fail if there is a configuration mismatch or
              other serious abnormal condition detected.  Note:  This option is
              not intended for general use.  Use only if instructed by Apple
              support. Incorrect use may result in an unusable file system.


       -h     Help - print the synopsis for this command.

       -l     Log - log when the update finished.

       -n     Read-only - set metadata to read-only mode.

       -M     Allow managed file systems with -R option.

       -R NewVolName
              Rename - Provide a new volume name to rename an existing unmanaged
              volume.  Use with -M to rename a managed file system.

              The existing config file will be renamed, and the existing data
              directory containing logs will be migrated to the new name.  See
              the section below for further details about using this option.

       -s     Slice rebuild - Rebuild the free slice trees to their optimal
              sizes.  When extending the LUNs in a storagepool, by default it
              will just add enough additional slices to hold the additional free
              space.  When the -s option is given, it will instead rebuild the
              slice trees, which usually results in larger slices.  If the LUNs
              have been previously extended, this option will allow the slice
              trees to be rebuilt without extending the LUNs.


       -S     Status - write status plist to
              /var/run/cvupdatefs_status_<FS>.plist.

       -U     When a storagepool is added, do a check for disks that are
              included in the storagepool that is being added to see if they are
              currently in use in another file system that is visible to the
              cluster. In some configurations, this may take a long time.  If
              there are disks in use, the operation is aborted.

       -v     Verbose - turn on verbose reporting methods.

       -y     Yes - Bypass the prompt and answer yes to the basic warning about
              proceeding.  If the prompt warning is for an unusual condition,
              this option will not bypass that prompt.

       Once the volume configuration has been changed to reflect the stripe
       group or journal changes the cvupdatefs utility may be run.  When
       cvupdatefs is run it will display a listing of storage pools which will
       be modified, followed by a prompt. If this list accurately reflects the
       changes made to the configuration file then answering 'yes' at the prompt
       will allow the utility to make the needed changes.

       Once the utility has completed, the volume may be started again. After
       starting the volume, the 'show' command in cvadmin(8) may be used to
       verify the new storage pools.  The 'show' command will list all of the
       stripe groups on the volume, including the newly created storage pool(s).
       Also, if the location of the volume journal has changed this too will be
       reflected by the cvadmin command 'show'.

WARNINGS
       It is very important that the consistency of the volume be correct before
       cvupdatefs is run. If the volume has a bad state cvupdatefs could
       introduce data corruption. It is recommended that cvfsck is executed on
       the volume before any changes are made. If cvfsck does not finish with a
       clean volume do not make any configuration changes until the volume is
       clean.

ADDING A STORAGE POOL
       The first step in adding storage pools is to modify the volume's
       configuration file to reflect the desired changes. For notes on volume
       configuration format refer to snfs_config(5).  In addition to adding
       StripeGroup configuration entries, associated Disk and DiskType entries
       for any new disks must be included.

       Currently the ordering of storage pools in the configuration file and in
       the metadata must match. Thus, when adding new storage pool configuration
       entries to the configuration file they must always be added to the end of
       the StripeGroup configuration section. cvupdatefs will abort if a new
       storage pool is detected anywhere but the end of the file.

INCREASING THE STRIPE DEPTH OF AN EXISTING STORAGE POOL
       Warning: This option is not recommended and its use is deprecated.
       Adding a new stripe group is the recommended way to expand capacity of a
       file system.

       The stripe depth is the number of disks in the storage pool and is a key
       factor in the amount of parallel I/O that can be accomplished.  This
       choice should ideally be made before the volume is created, thus
       eliminating the need for cvupdatefs to modify this value by adding disks
       to the storage pool. Consult the StorNext File System Tuning Guide for
       information on configuring for optimal file system performance.

       Warning: When a storage pool is populated with file data, adding disks
       will increase free space fragmentation of the storage pool proportional
       to the amount of pre-existing file data.  It is important to avoid
       fragmentation, which severely impacts performance and functionality of
       the volume.  If the storage pool contains little or no file data,
       expansion will not result in free space fragmentation.  The snfsdefrag
       utility can be used to relocate pre-existing file data to a different
       storage pool.

       When new disks are added to an existing storage pool the new disks must
       exactly match the existing disks in size. All new disks must be added to
       the end in the disk list in the configuration file StripeGroup section.

       New disks cannot be added to a storage pool containing metadata or
       journal. A new storage pool must be added if additional capacity or
       performance is needed for metadata or journal operations.  The cvupdatefs
       utility can be used to relocate the journal to a new storage pool.

MODIFYING VOLUME JOURNAL CONFIGURATION
       cvupdatefs will also detect changes in the journal configuration and
       modify the metadata accordingly. Journal changes include moving the
       journal to a new storage pool and increasing or decreasing the size of
       the journal.

       JournalSize
              (Located in the Global section) Modifying this value will change
              the size of the on-disk journal.

       Journal
              (Located in the Storage Pool section) Setting this entry to yes
              will place the on-disk journal on the given storage pool.

NOTE:
       There may only be one journal storage pool per volume.

REMOVING A JOURNAL-ONLY STRIPE GROUP
       For Linux MDCs, if a stripe group has only the journal attribute, i.e. no
       metadata and no userdata, and the journal is moved to another stripe
       group, the former journal-only stripe group is left with no attributes
       pertaining to content type. If it is desired that this stripe group be
       retired and the disks used for other purposes, you can set the status to
       down after the journal is moved. Note that the status must be up during
       the journal move operation because the journal recovery must be executed
       prior to moving the journal.

       The behavior is similar on Windows MDCs, except that there is no explicit
       userdata attribute in the ASCII config file. This means that with no
       journal and no metadata, userdata is assumed. If the desire is to retire
       the former journal-only stripe group, care should be taken to not run the
       file system after moving the journal off of the stripe group. Set the
       status to down immediately after moving the journal and before starting
       the FSM.

CORRECTING MISCONFIGURED STORAGE POOLS
       cvupdatefs has a limited ability to address configuration errors. For
       example, if a storage pool was added but the configuration file shows
       incorrect disk sizes, this option could be used to rewrite that stripe
       group. Metadata and Journal storage pools cannot be rewritten.  In
       addition, data only storage pools that may be overwritten must be empty.

       The types of changes that can be made to a storage pool are as follows

              1) Resize disk definitions in a storage pool
              2) Modify stripe breadth in a storage pool
              3) Modify the disk list in a storage pool

       Warning: Always use this option with extreme caution.  Configuration
       errors could lead to data loss.

RENAMING A VOLUME
       Warning: Renaming a volume that is managed requires additional steps
       documented elsewhere.  These are in the StorNext documentation center.
       When following those instructions, the -M option must be used when
       invoking this command with the -R option.  Otherwise, renaming a volume
       is only allowed on an unmanaged volume.  Without the -M option, if
       cvupdatefs(8) detects that the volume is managed, it will print an error
       message and exit without doing the rename.

       The -R option for renaming a volume should be used with care, as there
       are several things that get modified as part of this process.  Before
       renaming a volume, it is highly recommended that cvfsck(8) be run prior
       to renaming the volume.  The volume must be unmounted on all SAN and DLAN
       clients, and the volume stopped, see cvadmin(8).  If a client has the
       volume mounted when it is renamed, the client might need to be rebooted
       in order to unmount the old volume name.  On Windows, use the Client
       Configuration Tool to unmount volume before renaming it.

       The volume that is being renamed will have been configured in one of
       three modes: non-HA, HA or manual HA, and how it was configured will
       change how to rename the volume.

       Non-HA mode
              There are no extra steps needed when renaming a volume that is not
              in HA mode.

       HA mode
              When a volume is being used in HA mode, prior to running the
              rename command on the primary, on the secondary the
              /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/VolName directory should be manually
              renamed to /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/NewVolName.  When the rename
              command is then run on the primary, the HA sync processes will
              propagate all the other configuration changes to the secondary.
              Wait for the HA sync to complete before continuing.

       Manual HA mode
              In manual HA mode, the rename command should be run on both MDCs.
              When run on the second MDC, cvupdatefs(8) will recognize that the
              name in the ICB has been changed, but will proceed if NewVolName
              is the same as the name in the ICB.  In manual HA mode there is no
              need to manually rename /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/VolName since that
              will happen as part of running cvupdatefs -R on the second MDC.

       After changing the name of a volume, the change needs to be manually
       reflected in the /etc/fstab, /etc/vfstab or /etc/vstab files on all the
       clients before they remount the volume and the corresponding directories
       renamed or created.  Windows StorNext SAN and DLAN Clients mounts will
       need to be remapped.  Run the Client Configuration Tool to re-map the
       mount with new file system name.

       For any client that is operating as an Xsan volume Proxy Client, check to
       see if it has a /Library/Preferences/Xsan/dpserver.VolName file.  If it
       does, it will need to be renamed to
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/dpserver.NewVolName.

       If something goes wrong during the rename operation, cvupdatefs(8) will
       revert any partial changes, but it is still possible that in some corner
       cases it will not be able to fully revert the changes, and manual
       intervention will be required.  Files that are modified and/or renamed
       during the rename operation include:
          /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/VolName
          /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/NewVolName
          /Library/Preferences/Xsan/VolName.cfg
          /Library/Preferences/Xsan/NewVolName.cfg
          /Library/Preferences/Xsan/fsmlist
       as well as the ICB in the volume itself.  The OS dependent files that
       need to be manually updated include:
          /etc/fstab
          /etc/vfstab
          /etc/vstab
          Windows registry via the Windows Client Configuration Tool

ENABLING CASE INSENSITIVE
       If a change in the file system configuration is detected such that case
       insensitive is being enabled, cvupdatefs invokes cvfsck as a sub-process
       to check for name collisions.  If name collisions are detected, the
       update operation will be aborted.  It is strongly recommended that cvfsck
       -A be run prior to attempting the change using cvupdatefs.

EXIT VALUES
       cvupdatefs will return one of the following condition codes upon exit.

               0 - No error, no changes made to the volume
               1 - No error, changes have been made to the volume
               2 - Configuration or volume state error, no changes made
               3 - ICB error, improper volume found, no changes made
               4 - Case conversion found name collisions, no changes made

NOTES
       IMPORTANT: It is highly recommended to run cvfsck(8) prior to making any
       configuration changes.

FILES
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/*.cfg
       /Library/Logs/Xsan/data/<volume_name>/config_history/*.cfg.<TIMESTAMP>

SEE ALSO
       snfs_config(5), cvfsck(8), cvadmin(8)



