DNSBLOG(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  DNSBLOG(8)




NAME
       dnsblog - Postfix DNS white/blacklist logger

SYNOPSIS
       dnsblog [generic Postfix daemon options]

DESCRIPTION
       The dnsblog(8) server implements an ad-hoc DNS white/blacklist lookup
       service. This may eventually be replaced by an UDP client that is built
       directly into the postscreen(8) server.

PROTOCOL
       With each connection, the dnsblog(8) server receives a DNS
       white/blacklist domain name, an IP address, and an ID.  If the IP address
       is listed under the DNS white/blacklist, the dnsblog(8) server logs the
       match and replies with the query arguments plus an address list with the
       resulting IP addresses, separated by whitespace, and the reply TTL.
       Otherwise it replies with the query arguments plus an empty address list
       and the reply TTL; the reply TTL is -1 if there is no reply, or a
       negative reply that contains no SOA record.  Finally, the dnsblog(8)
       server closes the connection.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems and transactions are logged to syslogd(8).

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       Changes to main.cf are picked up automatically, as dnsblog(8) processes
       run for only a limited amount of time. Use the command "postfix reload"
       to speed up a change.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
              configuration files.

       daemon_timeout (18000s)
              How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
              request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.

       postscreen_dnsbl_sites (empty)
              Optional list of DNS white/blacklist domains, filters and weight
              factors.

       ipc_timeout (3600s)
              The time limit for sending or receiving information over an
              internal communication channel.

       process_id (read-only)
              The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       process_name (read-only)
              The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog records,
              so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       smtpd(8), Postfix SMTP server
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       syslogd(5), system logging

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

HISTORY
       This service was introduced with Postfix version 2.8.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



