dseditgroup(8)               System Manager's Manual              dseditgroup(8)

NAME
     dseditgroup – group record manipulation tool.

SYNOPSIS
     dseditgroup [options] [parameters] groupname

                 options:
                       -o operation   perform (read, create, delete, edit,
                                      checkmember) operation with given
                                      groupname
                       -p             prompt for authentication password
                       -q             disables interactive verification
                       -v             verbose logging to stdout

                 parameters:
                       -m member      username to use for checkmember option
                       -n nodename    directory node location of group record
                       -u username    authenticate with admin username
                       -P password    authentication password
                       -a recordname  name of the record to add
                       -d recordname  name of the record to delete
                       -t recordtype  type of the record to add or delete
                       -T grouptype   type of group to create or modify
                       -L             maintain ComputerLists in parallel with
                                      ComputerGroups
                       -i gid         gid to add/replace
                       -g guid        GUID to add/replace
                       -S sid         SID to add/replace
                       -r realname    realname to add/replace
                       -k keyword     keyword to add
                       -c comment     comment to add/replace
                       -s timetolive  seconds to live to add/replace
                       -f n | l       change the group's format - 'n' for the
                                      new group format and 'l' for the legacy
                                      group format


DESCRIPTION
     dseditgroup allows manipulation of a single named group record on either
     the default local node or the specified DirectoryService node. For the
     "read" operation the authentication search policy (/Search node) is
     consulted. Default behaviour is presented below after a discussion of each
     operation and the possible parameters.

     Options and their descriptions:

     -o operation
              If "read" then the parameters of the specified groupname will be
              displayed. This is the default option. The authentication search
              policy (/Search node) will be used.

              If "create" then create a group with the specified groupname on
              either the default local node or the specified DirectoryService
              node.

              If "delete" then delete a group with the specified groupname on
              either the default local node or the specified DirectoryService
              node.

              If "edit" then edit a group with the specified groupname on either
              the default local node or the specified DirectoryService node.

              If "checkmember" then check if the user specified with -m or
              current logged in user is a member of the specified groupname. The
              authentication search policy (/Search node) is used to find the
              member. The specified node (defaults to the authentication search
              policy) is used to find the group. If the specified node is not on
              the authentication search policy the behaviour is undefined.

     -p       You will be prompted for a password to use in conjunction with the
              specified username.

     -q       This disables interactive verification of replace or delete
              operations.

     -v       This enables the logging of the DirectoryService API calls and
              their return codes.

     Parameters and their descriptions:

     -m member
              The username of the account to verify group membership when using
              -o checkmember

     -n nodename
              Directory Service node name such as /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com and
              whose default value is the local node. "." can also be used to
              specify the local node.

     -u username
              Username of a user that has administrative privileges on this
              computer.

     -P password
              Password to use in conjunction with the specified username.  If
              this is not specified, you will be prompted for a password.

     -a recordname
              The name of the record to be added to the group specified by
              groupname. This name is related to the first record found on the
              authentication search policy when a search is made with this
              recordname and the given recordtype.

     -d recordname
              The name of the record to be deleted from the group specified by
              groupname. This name is related to the first record found on the
              authentication search policy when a search is made with this
              recordname and the given recordtype.

     -t recordtype
              The type of the record to be added to or deleted from the group
              specified by groupname. Valid values are user, computer, group, or
              computergroup.

     -T grouptype
              The type of the group record to be created or modified as
              specified by groupname. Valid values are group or computergroup.

     -L       If used with computergroup will also maintain the computerlist if
              it exists or create it if a computergroup is created.

     -i gid   This is a group id. This will be automatically created if not
              specified for a create.

     -g guid  This is a text representation of an 128 bit id. This will be
              automatically created if not specified for a create.

     -r realname
              This is a simple text string.

     -k keyword
              This is a simple text string.

     -c comment
              This is a simple text string.

     -s timetolive
              The number of seconds that this record is deemed valid as a cached
              value. There will be no automatically created default value if not
              specified for a create.

DEFAULT BEHAVIOUR
     dseditgroup mygroup

     This simple version of the command will default to:

     dseditgroup -o read -n . -u $USER mygroup

     The output will be the parameters of the "mygroup" group record if the
     shell user has read access to the local node's group record of name
     "mygroup".

EXAMPLES
     dseditgroup extragroup

     dseditgroup -o read extragroup

                    The attributes of the group extragroup from the local node
                    are displayed.

     dseditgroup -o create -n /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com -u myusername -P
              mypassword -r "Extra Group" -c "a nice comment" -s 3600 -k "some
              keyword" extragroup

                    The group extragroup is created from the node
                    /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com with the realname, comment,
                    timetolive (instead of default of 14400 = 4 hours), and
                    keyword atttribute values given above if the user myusername
                    has supplied a correct password and has write access.

     dseditgroup -o delete -n /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com -u myusername -P
              mypassword extragroup

                    The group extragroup is deleted from the node
                    /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com if the user myusername has supplied
                    a correct password and has write access.

     dseditgroup -o edit -n /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com -u myusername -p -a
              username -t user extragroup

                    The group extragroup from the node /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com
                    will have the username added if the username is in a user
                    record on the search policy and if the correct password is
                    presented interactively for the user myusername which also
                    need to have write access.

     dseditgroup -o edit -n /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com -u myusername -P -a
              mysubgroup -t group extragroup

                    The group extragroup from the node /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com
                    will have the mysubgroup added if the mysubgroup is in a
                    group record on the search policy and if the user myusername
                    has supplied a correct password and has write access.

     dseditgroup -o edit -n /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com -u myusername -p -d
              username -t user extragroup

                    The group extragroup from the node /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com
                    will have the username deleted if the correct password is
                    presented interactively for the user myusername which also
                    need to have write access.

     dseditgroup -o checkmember extragroup

                    Will write out a message specifying if the current user is a
                    member of extragroup on the authentication search policy.

     dseditgroup -o checkmember -n _. extragroup

                    Will write out a message specifying if the current user is a
                    member of extragroup on the local node.

     dseditgroup -n /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com -o checkmember -m user extragroup

                    Will write out a message specifying if user (found in
                    /Search) is a member of extragroup on the specified node
                    /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com. The specified node
                    /LDAPv3/ldap.company.com needs to be on the authentication
                    search policy for a valid answer.

