EDQUOTA(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  EDQUOTA(8)

NAME
     edquota – edit user quotas

SYNOPSIS
     edquota [-u] [-p proto-username] username ...
     edquota -g [-p proto-groupname] groupname ...
     edquota -t [-u]
     edquota -t -g

DESCRIPTION
     Edquota is a quota editor.  By default, or if the -u flag is specified, one
     or more users may be specified on the command line.  For each user a
     temporary file is created with an ASCII representation of the current disk
     quotas for that user.  The list of filesystems with user quotas is
     determined by scanning the mounted filesystems for a .quota.ops.user file
     located at its root.  An editor is invoked on the ASCII file.  The editor
     invoked is vi(1) unless the environment variable EDITOR specifies
     otherwise.

     The quotas may then be modified, new quotas added, etc.  Setting a quota to
     zero indicates that no quota should be imposed.  Setting a hard limit to
     one indicates that no allocations should be permitted.  Setting a soft
     limit to one with a hard limit of zero indicates that allocations should be
     permitted on only a temporary basis (see -t below).  The current usage
     information in the file is for informational purposes; only the hard and
     soft limits can be changed.

     On leaving the editor, edquota reads the temporary file and modifies the
     binary quota files to reflect the changes made.  The binary quota file,
     .quota.user is stored at the root of the filesystem.  The default filename
     and root location for the user quotas cannot be overridden.

     If the -p flag is specified, edquota will duplicate the quotas of the
     prototypical user specified for each user specified.  This is the normal
     mechanism used to initialize quotas for groups of users.

     If the -g flag is specified, edquota is invoked to edit the quotas of one
     or more groups specified on the command line.  The list of filesystems with
     group quotas is determined by scanning the mounted filesystems for a
     .quota.ops.group file located at its root.  Similarly, the binary quota
     file, .quota.group is stored at the root of the filesystem.  The default
     filename and root location for group quotas cannot be overridden.  The -p
     flag can be specified in conjunction with the -g flag to specify a
     prototypical group to be duplicated among the listed set of groups.

     Users are permitted to exceed their soft limits for a grace period that may
     be specified per filesystem.  Once the grace period has expired, the soft
     limit is enforced as a hard limit.  The default grace period for a
     filesystem is specified in /usr/include/sys/quota.h.  The -t flag can be
     used to change the grace period.  By default, or when invoked with the -u
     flag, the grace period is set for each filesystem with a .quota.ops.user
     file located at its root.  When invoked with the -g flag, the grace period
     is set for each filesystem with a .quota.ops.group file located at its
     root.  The grace period may be specified in days, hours, minutes, or
     seconds.  Setting a grace period to zero indicates that the default grace
     period should be imposed.  Setting a grace period to one second indicates
     that no grace period should be granted.

     Only the super-user may edit quotas.

FILES
     Each of the following quota files is located at the root of the mounted
     filesystem.  The mount option files are empty files whose existence
     indicates that quotas are to be enabled for that filesystem.  The binary
     data files will be created by edquota, if they don't already exist.

     .quota.user       data file containing user quotas
     .quota.group      data file containing group quotas
     .quota.ops.user   mount option file used to enable user quotas
     .quota.ops.group  mount option file used to enable group quotas

SEE ALSO
     quota(1), quotactl(2), quotacheck(8), quotaon(8), repquota(8)

DIAGNOSTICS
     Various messages about inaccessible files; self-explanatory.

