hdik(8)                      System Manager's Manual                     hdik(8)

NAME
     hdik – lightweight tool to attach and mount disk images in-kernel

SYNOPSIS
     hdik imagefile [options]
     hdik -e device

DESCRIPTION
     hdik is a simple tool that can be used to attach disk images directly to
     the DiskImages driver.  The end result is functionally similar to passing
     -kernel to hdiutil(1)'s attach verb.  hdik does not rely upon the presence
     of DiskImages or other high-level frameworks.

     The DiskImages driver only supports a selection of disk image formats:
     UDRW, UDRO, UDZO, ULFO, SPARSE (UDSP).  It also supports shadow files.
     hdiutil(1)'s imageinfo verb indicates whether a particular image is kernel
     compatible.

     hdik requires root access to perform its functions.

     In the first form, an image to attach must be provided:

     imagefile   path to the disk image file to attach.

     In its second form, hdik issues an eject command to the specified device.
     The argument is the full device node path (e.g.  /dev/disk2). Any volumes
     mounted from the device must be unmounted first, or the command will fail.
     See umount(8).

OPTIONS
     -shadow [shadowfile]
                 Use a shadow file in conjunction with the data in the image.
                 This option prevents modification of the original image and
                 allows read-only images to be used as read/write images.  When
                 blocks are being read from the image, blocks present in the
                 shadow file override blocks in the base image.  When blocks are
                 being written, the writes will be redirected to the shadow
                 file.  If not specified, -shadow defaults to
                 <imagename>.shadow.  If the shadow file does not exist, it is
                 created.

     -nomount    Suppress automatic mounting of filesystems contained within the
                 image.  This will result in /dev entries being created, but
                 will not mount any volumes.

     -drivekey keyname=value
                 Specify a key/value pair for the IOHDIXHDDrive object created
                 (shows up in the IOKit registry of devices which is viewable
                 with ioreg(8)).

SEE ALSO
     hdiutil(1), diskarbitrationd(8), diskutil(8), umount(8), ioreg(8)

