HOSTINFO(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 HOSTINFO(8)

NAME
     hostinfo – host information

SYNOPSIS
     hostinfo

DESCRIPTION
     The hostinfo command displays information about the host system on which
     the command is executing.  The output includes a  kernel version
     description, processor configuration data, available physical memory, and
     various scheduling statistics.

OPTIONS
     There are no options.

DISPLAY
           Mach kernel version:
           The version string compiled into the kernel executing on the host
           system.

           Processor Configuration:
           The maximum possible processors for which the kernel is configured,
           followed by the number of physical and logical processors available.

           Note: on Intel architectures, physical processors are referred to as
           cores, and logical processors are referred to as hardware threads;
           there may be multiple logical processors per core and multiple cores
           per processor package.  This command does not report the number of
           processor packages.

           Processor type:
           The host's processor type and subtype.

           Processor active:
           A list of active processors on the host system.  Active processors
           are members of a processor set and are ready to dispatch threads.  On
           a single processor system, the active processor, is processor 0.

           Primary memory available:
           The amount of physical memory that is configured for use on the host
           system.

           Default processor set:
           Displays the number of tasks currently assigned to the host processor
           set, the number of threads currently assigned to the host processor
           set, and the number of processors included in the host processor set.

           Load average:
           Measures the average number of threads in the run queue.

           Mach factor:
           A variant of the load average which measures the processing resources
           available to a new thread.  Mach factor is based on the number of
           CPUs divided by (1 + the number of runnablethreads) or the number of
           CPUs minus the number of runnable threads when the number of runnable
           threads is less than the number of CPUs.  The closer the Mach factor
           value is to zero, the higher the load.  On an idle system with a
           fixed number of active processors, the mach factor will be equal to
           the number of CPUs.

SEE ALSO
     sysctl(8)

