IPCONFIG(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 IPCONFIG(8)

NAME
     ipconfig – view and control IP configuration state

SYNOPSIS
     ipconfig waitall
     ipconfig getifaddr interface-name
     ipconfig ifcount
     ipconfig getoption interface-name (option-name | option-code)
     ipconfig getpacket interface-name
     ipconfig getv6packet interface-name
     ipconfig getra interface-name
     ipconfig setverbose level
     ipconfig set interface-name NONE
     ipconfig set interface-name (DHCP | BOOTP)
     ipconfig set interface-name (MANUAL | INFORM) ip-address subnet-mask
     ipconfig set interface-name NONE-V6
     ipconfig set interface-name AUTOMATIC-V6
     ipconfig set interface-name MANUAL-V6 ipv6-address prefix-length
     ipconfig set interface-name 6TO4

DESCRIPTION
     ipconfig is a utility that communicates with the IPConfiguration agent to
     retrieve and set IP configuration parameters.  It should only be used in a
     test and debug context.  Using it for any other purpose is strongly
     discouraged. Public API's in the SystemConfiguration framework are
     currently the only supported way to access and control the state of
     IPConfiguration.

     The IPConfiguration agent is responsible for configuring and managing the
     IPv4 and IPv6 addresses on direct, connectionless interfaces such as
     ethernet and Wi-Fi.  The IPConfiguration agent is a program bundle that is
     loaded and executed by the configd(8) process.

     The IPConfiguration agent implements the client side of the DHCP and BOOTP
     protocols described in RFC951, RFC1542, RFC2131, and RFC2132.  It also
     assigns and maintains static IP addresses.  It may also allocate and assign
     a link-local IP address if DHCP fails to acquire an IP address.

     The IPConfiguration agent enables and controls the IPv6 SLAAC (RFC 4862)
     state in the kernel, and also handles statically configured IPv6 addresses.
     The agent implements the client side of the DHCPv6 protocol (RFC 3315) and
     supports both stateless and stateful operation.

     In all cases, the IPConfiguration agent performs IP address conflict
     detection before assigning an IP address to an interface.

COMMANDS
     The ipconfig utility provides several commands:

     waitall
             Blocks until all network services have completed configuring, or
             have timed out in the process of configuring.  This is only useful
             for initial system start-up time synchronization for legacy network
             services that are incapable of dealing with dynamic network
             configuration changes.

     getifaddr interface-name
             Prints to standard output the IP address for the first network
             service associated with the given interface.  The output will be
             empty if no service is currently configured or active on the
             interface.

     ifcount
             Prints the number of interfaces that IPConfiguration is capable of
             configuring.  The value that's printed will not change unless
             relevant network interfaces are either added to or removed from the
             system.

     getoption interface-name (option-name | option-code)
             Prints the BOOTP/DHCP option with the given name or option code
             integer value.  See bootpd(8) for option code names.  If an option
             has multiple values e.g. domain_name_server, only the first value
             is printed.

     getpacket interface-name
             Prints to standard output the DHCP/BOOTP packet that the client
             accepted from the DHCP/BOOTP server.  This command is useful to
             check what the server provided, and whether the values are
             sensible.  This command outputs nothing if DHCP/BOOTP is not active
             on the interface, or the attempt to acquire an IP address was
             unsuccessful.

     getv6packet interface-name
             Prints to standard output the latest DHCPv6 packet that the client
             accepted from the DHCPv6 server.  In the case of stateful DHCPv6,
             it corresponds to the last packet from the server that contained
             addressing information.  This command is useful to check what the
             server provided, and whether the values are sensible.  This command
             outputs nothing if DHCPv6 is not active on the interface.

     getra interface-name
             Prints to standard output the latest IPv6 Router Advertisement
             packet that the client accepted from an advertising router. This
             command outputs nothing if no router is present.

     set interface-name NONE
     set interface-name (DHCP | BOOTP)
     set interface-name (MANUAL | INFORM) ip-address subnet-mask
     set interface-name NONE-V6
     set interface-name AUTOMATIC-V6
     set interface-name MANUAL-V6 ipv6-address prefix-length
     set interface-name 6TO4
             Sets the interface to have a new temporary network service of the
             given type.  Any existing services on the interface for the
             particular protocol (IPv4 or IPv6) are first de-configured before
             the new service is instantiated.

             If NONE is specified, all existing IPv4 services are de-configured.
             If NONE-V6 is specified, all existing IPv6 services are de-
             configured.

             DHCP and BOOTP require no additional arguments. The IP address,
             subnet mask, router, and DNS information are retrieved
             automatically.

             Both MANUAL and INFORM require the specification of an IP address
             ip-address and a subnet mask subnet-mask.

             The INFORM service configures the IP address statically like
             MANUAL, but then broadcasts DHCP INFORM packets to retrieve DHCP
             option information. If the DHCP server responds and supplies a
             subnet mask, that subnet mask is used instead of the specified
             subnet-mask.

             AUTOMATIC-V6 requires no additional arguments.  The IPv6 address,
             prefix length and router are retrieved automatically.

             MANUAL-V6 requires the specification of the IPv6 address
             ipv6-address and a prefix length prefix-length.

             6TO4 only works on Six To Four (IFT_STF) interfaces e.g. stf0.  If
             it is specified on a non-IFT_STF interface, it has the same effect
             as specifying NONE-V6.

             The set command requires root privileges.

             Note: The set command is very useful for debugging, but it can't be
             used to configure a persistent service.  The temporary services
             that are created only remain until the next network configuration
             change occurs. See scselect(8).

     setverbose level
             Enables or disables verbose mode logging in the IPConfiguration
             agent. Specify a level value of 0 to disable verbose logging, the
             default.  Specify a value of 1 to enable verbose logging. This
             setting is persistent across boots of the operating system.

             All logging generated by the IPConfiguration agent can be filtered
             using the "com.apple.IPConfiguration" subsystem identifier.

             The setverbose command requires root privileges.

EXAMPLES
     # ipconfig getpacket en0
     op = BOOTREPLY
     htype = 1
     dp_flags = 0
     hlen = 6
     hops = 0
     xid = 1956115059
     secs = 0
     ciaddr = 0.0.0.0
     yiaddr = 192.168.4.10
     siaddr = 192.168.4.1
     giaddr = 0.0.0.0
     chaddr = 0:3:93:7a:d7:5c
     sname = dhcp.mycompany.net
     file =
     options:
     Options count is 10
     dhcp_message_type (uint8): ACK 0x5
     server_identifier (ip): 192.168.4.1
     lease_time (uint32): 0x164a
     subnet_mask (ip): 255.255.255.0
     router (ip_mult): {192.168.4.1}
     domain_name_server (ip_mult): {192.168.4.1}
     domain_name (string): mycompany.net
     end (none):

     # ipconfig getoption en0 router
     192.168.4.1

SEE ALSO
     configd(8), bootpd(8), scselect(8)

HISTORY
     The ipconfig command first appeared in Mac OS X Version 10.0 Public Beta.

