KEXTSTAT(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 KEXTSTAT(8)

NAME
     kextstat – display status of loaded kernel extensions (kexts)

SYNOPSIS
     kextstat [-a] [-h] [-k] [-l] [-b identifier] ...

DEPRECATED
     The kextstat utility has been deprecated.  Please use the kmutil(8)
     equivalent: kmutil showloaded.

DESCRIPTION
     The kextstat utility displays the status of any kexts currently loaded in
     the kernel.  The following information is shown for each loaded kext:

     Index     The load index of the kext (used to track linkage references).
               Gaps in the list indicate kexts that have been unloaded.

     Refs      The number of references to this kext by others.  If nonzero, the
               kext cannot be unloaded.

     Address   The address in kernel space where the kext has been loaded.

     Size      The number of bytes of kernel memory that the kext occupies.  If
               this is zero, the kext is a built-in part of the kernel that has
               a record as a kext for resolving dependencies among kexts.

     Wired     The number of wired bytes of kernel memory that the kext
               occupies.

     Architecture (if the -a option is used)
               The architecture of the kext.

     Name      The CFBundleIdentifier of the kext.

     (Version)
               The CFBundleVersion of the kext.

     <Linked Against>
               The index numbers of all other kexts that this kext has a
               reference to.

OPTIONS
     These options are available:

     -a, -arch
               Print the architecture of the kext.

     -b identifier, -bundle-id identifier
               Display the status of only the kext with the given bundle
               identifier.  This option trumps the -no-kernel option; if both
               are given and a kernel component is specified, its information is
               shown.

     -h, -help
               Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a
               success result, regardless of any other options on the command
               line.

     -k, -no-kernel
               Don't show information for built-in components of the kernel.

     -l, -list-only
               Print the list of loaded kexts only and omit the header (useful
               for running output through text-analysis tools).

     -s, -sort
               Sort the list by load address.

DIAGNOSTICS
     The kextstat utility exits with a status of 0 on success and with a nonzero
     status if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     kmutil(8), kernelmanagerd(8), kextcache(8), kextd(8), kextload(8),
     kextunload(8), kextutil(8)

