KEXTLIBS(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 KEXTLIBS(8)

NAME
     kextlibs – find OSBundleLibraries needed by a kext

SYNOPSIS
     kextlibs [options] [--] kext ...

DEPRECATED
     The kextlibs utility has been deprecated.  Please use the kmutil(8)
     equivalent: kmutil libraries.

DESCRIPTION
     The kextlibs utility searches for library kexts that define symbols needed
     for linking by kext, printing their bundle identifiers and versions to
     stdout.  If the kext has a multiple-architecture executable, libraries are
     resolved for each architecture.  If any symbols are not found, or are found
     in multiple libraries, the numbers of such symbols are printed to standard
     error after the library kext information for each architecture.

     A handy use of kextlibs is to run it with just the -xml flag and pipe the
     output to pbcopy(1); if the exit status is zero (indicating no undefined or
     multiply-defined symbols), you can open your kext's Info.plist file in a
     text editor and paste the library declarations over the OSBundleLibraries
     property.

     You can use kextlibs to find libraries for older releases of macOS using
     the -repository option to specify an extensions folder to search other than
     the extensions directories for the root volume (although releases prior to
     Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard) don't check for architecture-specific
     properties, so be sure to check the output and edit as needed).  If you
     don't explicitly specify a repository directory, kextlibs searches the root
     volume's /System/Library/Extensions and /Library/Extensions directories.

OPTIONS
     -h, -help
              Print a help message describing each option flag and exit with a
              success result, regardless of any other options on the command
              line.

     -all-symbols
              Print reports on all symbols that remain undefined, all symbols
              that have been resolved in one library kext each, and all symbols
              that have multiple definitions in different library kexts.
              Equivalent to specifying all of -undef-symbols, -onedef-symbols,
              and -multdef-symbols.  Normally only the number of missing and
              duplicate symbols is printed.

     -c, -compatible-versions
              Print the compatible version rather than the current version.

     -multdef-symbols
              Print all undefined symbols from kext found in more than one
              library kext, followed by those library kexts' bundle identifiers
              and versions (or compatible versions if -compatible-versions was
              specified).  Normally only the number of multiply-defined symbols
              is printed.

     -non-kpi
              Search the compatibility kext, com.apple.kernel.6.0, rather than
              any of the com.apple.kpi.* system kexts.  Use of this option is
              not recommended: The exact kernel component (mach, bsd, libkern,
              or iokit) cannot be determined, and the compatible version of
              com.apple.kernel is locked to its current version, so kexts
              linking against it can only load against that exact version.

     -onedef-symbols
              Print all undefined symbols from kext found in exactly one library
              kext, followed by that library kext's bundle identifier and
              version (or compatible version if -compatible-versions was
              specified).  Normally nothing is printed about symbols that are
              found once.

     -r directory, -repository directory
              Search directory for dependencies.  This option may be specified
              multiple times.  You can use this to get library declarations
              relative to a set of extensions other than those of the running
              system (such as for a different release of macOS), or to include a
              side directory of library kexts.  Note: If you specify a directory
              with this option, the system extensions folders are not implicitly
              searched.  See -system-extensions.

     -e, -system-extensions
              Add /System/Library/Extensions and /Library/Extensions to the list
              of directories to search.  If you don't specify any directories or
              kexts, this is used by default.

     -undef-symbols
              Print all undefined symbols from kext that can't be found in any
              library kexts.  Normally only the number of symbols not found is
              printed.

     -unsupported
              Search unsupported library kexts for symbols (by default they are
              not searched).

     -v [0-6 | 0x####], -verbose [0-6 | 0x####]
              Verbose mode; print information about program operation.  Higher
              levels of verbosity include all lower levels.  You can specify a
              level from 0-6, or a hexadecimal log specification (as described
              in kext_logging(8)). For kextlibs, the decimal levels 1-6
              generally have little effect.

     -xml     Print an XML fragment to stdout suitable for copying and pasting
              directly into an Info.plist file.  This option prints information
              about libraries to stdout, and then prints information about
              symbols to stderr. In XML mode, if the libraries for all
              architectures are the same, only one set of OSBundleLibraries is
              printed; if any differ from any others, architecture-specific
              listings for all architectures are printed
              (OSBundleLibraries_i386, OSBundleLibraries_x86_64, and so on).

     --       End of options.

FILES
     /System/Library/Extensions/  The standard system repository of kernel
                                  extensions.
     /Library/Extensions/         The standard repository of non Apple kernel
                                  extensions.

DIAGNOSTICS
     The kextlibs utility exits with a status of 0 on completion if all
     undefined symbols are found exactly once; with a status of 1 if any
     undefined symbols remain, or with a status of 2 if any symbols are found in
     more than one library kext (whether or not any undefined symbols remain),
     and with another nonzero status on some other problem.

BUGS
     kextlibs uses a simple algorithm of string matching to resolve symbols, and
     does not apply any of the patching that the full link process does.  This
     can cause it to fail when searching for symbols in a kext built against an
     SDK for a prior release of macOS than the one on which kextlibs is being
     used.  In such cases, you can run kextlibs against the Extensions folder of
     that prior release using the -repository option.

     Many single-letter options are inconsistent in meaning with (or directly
     contradictory to) the same letter options in other kext tools.

SEE ALSO
     kmutil(8), kernelmanagerd(8), kextutil(8), kextfind(8), kext_logging(8)

