krbservicesetup(8)           System Manager's Manual          krbservicesetup(8)

NAME
     krbservicesetup – Kerberos – Open Directory Single Sign On

SYNOPSIS
     krbservicesetup [-r REALM] -a admin_name [-p password] [-t keytab]
                     [-f setup_file] [service_type service_principal]

DESCRIPTION
     krbservicesetup is used by sso_util to configure Kerberized services on the
     current host. It uses kadmin to add service principals to the KDC database
     and create the krb5.keytab file. And then edits/creates the config files of
     the given service to use the proper service principal.  krbservicesetup
     knows how to configure the FTP, AFP, POP, IMAP, SMTP and SSH services
     shipped by Apple in Mac OS X 10.3 krbservicesetup takes either a
     service_type, service_principal pair or a plist file with a list of
     services to configure. The plist file also allows more control over the
     options used when creating the principals.

     krbservicesetup arguments:

     -x       Use kadmin.local instead of kadmin.

     -r REALM
              The Kerberos realm of the server

     -a admin_name
              Name of an administrator with priveleges to add principals to the
              KDC

     -p password
              Password for the above user

     -t keytab
              The path of the keytab file to write

     -f setup_file
              The path of the plist file containing the list of services to be
              configured

     service_type service_principal
              A single service to configure

     The service_types understood by krbservicesetup are:

     afp      Apple Filing Protocol

     ftp      File Transfer Protocol

     imap     IMAP mail protocol

     pop      POP mail protocol

     smtp     SMTP mail protocol

     ssh      Secure Shell

     The plist file format used by krbservicesetup consists of a couple of
     optional boolean flag items and an array of dictionaries representing the
     services to be configured.

     noConfig - Boolean
              Flag indicating that just the service principals should be created
              in the KDC

     configOnly - Boolean
              Flag indicating that the services need to be configured

     Services - array of dictionaries
              Array of service dictionaries to be configured

              serviceType - string
                       Type of the service (see above for definitions)

              servicePrincipal - string
                       Kerberos principal name for the service

              option - Boolean
                       Options passed on to the add_princ command within kadmin
                       If the boolean value is true, the option passed to kadmin
                       is the option name with a '+' prepended. If the value is
                       false a '-' is prepended

              option - string
                       Options passed on to the add_princ command within kadmin
                       If the key is foo and the string value is bar then the
                       option passed in the add_princ command is "-foo bar"

     The options for the add_princ command are detailed in the man page for
     kadmin Some of the possibly options are restricted specifically the pw and
     needchange commands are ignored. Every service principal is generated with
     the randkey option.

FILES
     /etc/krb5.keytab               The file where Kerberos stores the service
                                    principals for the services on this host

DIAGNOSTICS
     You can add -v debug_level to the krbservicesetup command. Debug level 1
     provides status information, higher levels add progressivly more levels of
     detail.

EXAMPLES
     It is better to use the configure command in sso_util to configure multiple
     services. Here is an example of using krbservicesetup to configure a FTP
     server in the realm FOO.ORG

     krbservicesetup -r FOO.ORG -a admin -p password ftp
     ftp/myhost.foo.org@FOO.ORG

     (the above should be all on one line)

NOTES
     The krbservicesetup tool is used by the Apple Single Sign On system to set
     up Kerberized services integrated with the rest of the Single Sign On
     components.

SEE ALSO
     kadmin(8), kdcsetup(8), sso_util(8)

