MKEXTUNPACK(8)               System Manager's Manual              MKEXTUNPACK(8)

NAME
     mkextunpack – extract or list the contents of a multikext (mkext) archive

SYNOPSIS
     mkextunpack [-v] [-a arch] [-d output_directory] mkext_file

DEPRECATED
     The mkextunpack utility has been deprecated.

DESCRIPTION
     The mkextunpack program lists the contents of a multikext file, mkext_file,
     or unarchives the contents into output_directory (which must exist).  The
     -v option causes mkextunpack to print the name if each kext as it finds
     them.

DIAGNOSTICS
     mkextunpack exits with a zero status upon success.  Upon failure, it prints
     an error message and exits with a nonzero status.

     With a nonsegreated format 1 mkext file, wherein each kext may contain a
     universal binary, mkextunpack simply unpacks the contents.  With an mkext
     file segregated by architecture (that is, with distinct internal archives
     of architecture-specific kexts), mkextunpack attempts by default to unpack
     or list kexts for the current machine's architecture.  To choose a
     particular architecture to extract or list, use the -a option.

     There is no simple way to unpack a segregated mkext file into a set of
     kexts with universal binaries, but you can unpack each of its component
     architectures to separate directories for examination.

SEE ALSO
     kmutil(8), kernelmanagerd(8), kextcache(8)

BUGS
     Many single-letter options are inconsistent in meaning with (or directly
     contradictory to) the same letter options in other kext tools.

     For version 1 mkext files, note that the file format doesn't record the
     original filenames of the kexts, so mkextunpack has to guess at what they
     are.  It does this by using the value of the CFBundleExecutable property of
     the kext's info dictionary (Project Builder sets this to the base name of
     the kext bundle by default, but the developer can change it).  If that
     property doesn't exist, the last component of the CFBundleIdentifier is
     used.  Duplicates have an incrementing index appended to the name.  Kexts
     that have no CFBundleExecutable or CFBundleIdentifier property are named
     “NameUnknown-n.kext”, where n is a number.

