mkpassdb(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 mkpassdb(8)

NAME
     mkpassdb – Mac OS X Server Password Server database creation tool

SYNOPSIS
     mkpassdb -deleteslot slot-ID
     mkpassdb -dump [-v]
     mkpassdb -dump [slot-ID]
     mkpassdb -header
     mkpassdb -kerberize
     mkpassdb -key
     mkpassdb -list
     mkpassdb -mergedb path
     mkpassdb -mergeparent path
     mkpassdb -setadmin slot-ID [admin-class (0-7)]
     mkpassdb -setglobalpolicy "policy1=value1 policy2=value2 etc."
     mkpassdb -setkerberos slot-ID KerberosRealm
     mkpassdb -setkeyagent slot-ID
     mkpassdb -setcomputeraccount [off]
     mkpassdb -setrealm realm
     mkpassdb -getreplicationinterval
     mkpassdb -setreplicationinterval seconds [policy]
     mkpassdb -rekeydb [key-size-in-bits]
     mkpassdb [-u user] [-m mech] [-a] [-b] [-e count] [-n replica-name] [-o]
              [-p] [-q]

DESCRIPTION
     mkpassdb creates or modifies the password server database directly.

     mkpassdb must be run as root; it will exit otherwise. The -list command is
     the only exception.

     This tool's purpose is to create and manage the password server database.
     It performs operations that are not supported by the password server
     protocol because of security concerns. These operations include the
     creation and destruction of the database itself, the creation of the RSA
     security keys that establish the identity of the password server, the
     trusted mechanism list, and the genesis of administrator accounts. It also
     allows the root account to make some password server changes on the local
     system.

     -deleteslot               Invalidates a slot ID in the database.
     -dump                     Outputs all of the User IDs and their
                               corresponding user names. If a slot-ID is
                               specified, it prints out more detailed
                               information for a single slot. If the [-v] option
                               is used, additional columns are included.
     -header                   Outputs the database header information.
     -kerberize                Attempts to add kerberos principals for all non-
                               kerberos accounts in password server.
     -key                      Outputs the RSA public key stored in the
                               database.
     -list                     Outputs all of the SASL mechanisms available to
                               the password server.
     -mergedb                  This command is a low-level command that is
                               invoked by a higher-level tool in normal usage.
                               Refer to the restoredb command in the slapconfig
                               man page.  This command merges a snapshot of the
                               password server database into the current
                               database whether or not the daemon is running.
                               This command takes existing LDAP users, looks for
                               their data in the specified db file, and merges
                               their db information.  If there is data in the db
                               without a corresponding LDAP user or computer, it
                               is not merged.  The identity elements of the
                               password server, including RSA keys and replica
                               name, are changed to the snapshot's contents.
     -mergeparent              This command is a low-level command that is
                               invoked by a higher-level tool in normal usage.
                               Refer to the mergedb command in the slapconfig
                               man page.  This command merges a snapshot of the
                               password server database into the current
                               database whether or not the daemon is running.
                               This command takes existing LDAP
                                users, looks for their data in the specified db
                               file, and merges their db information.  If there
                               is data in the db without a corresponding LDAP
                               user or compute r, it is not merged.  The current
                               identity of the password server is preserved.
     -setadmin                 Promotes a slot-ID to have administrator
                               privileges for the password server. By default,
                               administrators set with mkpassdb receive the most
                               priveleged rank (0).
     -setglobalpolicy          Sets the default policies for all users.
     -setkerberos              Assigns a Kerberos realm to a password server
                               account.
     -setkeyagent              Promotes a slot-ID to have enough administrator
                               privileges to retrieve session keys on behalf of
                               other accounts.
     -setcomputeraccount       Informs the password server that the account
                               belongs to a computer rather than a user.
                               Computer accounts are not subject to policies and
                               do not expire. Using the optional "off" argument
                               changes the state back to a user account.
     -setrealm                 Sets the password server's SASL realm.
     -getreplicationinterval   Gets the number of seconds between replication
                               attempts.
     -setreplicationinterval   Sets the number of seconds between replication
                               attempts.
     -rekeydb                  Generates a new RSA public/private key pair for
                               the database. Valid sizes are 1024, 2048, or
                               3072.  This command should be invoked by a
                               higher-level tool. If run from the command line,
                               existing users will not be able to authenticate.
                               The PasswordService daemon must be turned off
                               with, "NeST -stoppasswordserver" before this
                               command can be used.

OPTIONS
     The following options are available:

     -a    add a new administrator to an existing database.

     -b    add a new non-administrative user to an existing database.

     -e    expand the database to a fixed number of records. If the number is
           greater than the current size of the database, then the database is
           expanded; otherwise, no action is performed. This option is used by
           other setup tools when establishing a replica database. There is no
           reason to use it from the command line.

     -m mech
           establishes a mechanism as weak. If a mechanism is considered weak,
           then it can be used to verify passwords but the password server will
           not allow write operations to its database. The mechanisms SMB-NT,
           SMB-LAN-MANAGER, CRYPT, and APOP are always in the weak list.
           Directory Services uses DHX to perform write operations to the
           password server.

     -n name
           Assign a name to a replica

     -o    overwrite an existing database. Replacing an existing database is
           extremely destructive and should not be done unless all password
           server users have been removed from the directory system.

     -p    prompt for a password

     -q    quiet

     -u user
           Add this user name to the database.

USAGE
     In typical usage, mkpassdb is invoked by another tool. It is used directly
     on rare occasion.

FILES & FOLDERS
     /Library/Preferences/com.apple.passwordserver.plist - the PasswordService preferences file
     /usr/sbin/PasswordService - the password service daemon
     /var/db/authserver/authservermain - password database (guard this)
     /var/db/authserver/authserverfree - list of free (reusable) slots in the database
     /var/db/authserver/authserverreplicas - table of password server replicas

SEE ALSO
     NeST(8) PasswordService(8) slapconfig(8)

