MOUNT_MSDOS(8)               System Manager's Manual              MOUNT_MSDOS(8)

NAME
     mount_msdos – mount an MS-DOS file system

SYNOPSIS
     mount_msdos [-o options] [-u uid] [-g gid] [-m mask] special node

DESCRIPTION
     The mount_msdos command attaches the MS-DOS filesystem residing on the
     device special to the global filesystem namespace at the location indicated
     by node.  This command is normally executed by mount(8) at boot time, but
     can be used by any user to mount an MS-DOS file system on any directory
     that they own (provided, of course, that they have appropriate access to
     the device that contains the file system).

     The options are as follows:

     -o options
             Use the specified mount options, as described in mount(8).

     -u uid  Set the owner of the files in the file system to uid.  The default
             owner is the owner of the directory on which the file system is
             being mounted.

     -g gid  Set the group of the files in the file system to gid.  The default
             group is the group of the directory on which the file system is
             being mounted.

     -m mask
             Specify the maximum file permissions for files in the file system.
             (For example, a mask of 755 specifies that, by default, the owner
             should have read, write, and execute permissions for files, but
             others should only have read and execute permissions.  See chmod(1)
             for more information about octal file modes.)  Only the nine low-
             order bits of mask are used.  The default mask is taken from the
             directory on which the file system is being mounted.

SEE ALSO
     mount(2), unmount(2), fstab(5), mount(8)

CAVEATS
     FreeBSD 2.1 and earlier versions could not handle cluster sizes larger than
     16K.  Just mounting an MS-DOS file system could cause corruption to any
     mounted file system.  Cluster sizes larger than 16K are unavoidable for
     file system sizes larger than 1G, and also occur when filesystems larger
     than 1G are shrunk to smaller than 1G using FIPS.

HISTORY
     The mount_msdos utility first appeared in FreeBSD 2.0.  Its predecessor,
     the mount_pcfs utility appeared in FreeBSD 1.0, and was abandoned in favor
     of the more aptly-named mount_msdos.

