MOUNT_CD9660(8)              System Manager's Manual             MOUNT_CD9660(8)

NAME
     mount_cd9660 – mount an ISO-9660 filesystem

SYNOPSIS
     mount_cd9660 [-egjr] [-o options] [-s startsector] special node

DESCRIPTION
     The mount_cd9660 command attaches the ISO-9660 filesystem residing on the
     device special to the global filesystem namespace at the location indicated
     by node.  This command is normally executed by mount(8) at boot time.

     The options are as follows:

     -e      Enable the use of extended attributes.

     -g      Do not strip version numbers on files.  (By default, if there are
             files with different version numbers on the disk, only the last one
             will be listed.)  In either case, files may be opened without
             explicitly stating a version number.

     -j      Do not use any Joliet extensions included in the filesystem.

     -o      Options are specified with a -o flag followed by a comma separated
             string of options.  See the mount(8) man page for possible options
             and their meanings.

     -r      Do not use any Rockridge extensions included in the filesystem.

     -s startsector
             Start the filesystem at startsector.  Normally, if the underlying
             device is a CD-ROM drive, mount_cd9660 will try to figure out the
             last track from the CD-ROM containing data, and start the
             filesystem there.  If the device is not a CD-ROM, or the table of
             contents cannot be examined, the filesystem will be started at
             sector 0.  This option can be used to override the behaviour.  Note
             that startsector is measured in CD-ROM blocks, with 2048 bytes
             each.

SEE ALSO
     mount(2), unmount(2), fstab(5), mount(8)

BUGS
     POSIX device node mapping is currently not supported.

     Version numbers are not stripped if Rockridge extensions are in use.  In
     this case, accessing files that don't have Rockridge names without version
     numbers gets the one with the lowest version number and not the one with
     the highest.

     There is no ECMA support.

HISTORY
     The mount_cd9660 utility first appeared 4.4BSD.

