MOUNT_EXFAT(8)               System Manager's Manual              MOUNT_EXFAT(8)

NAME
     mount_exfat – mount an ExFAT file system

SYNOPSIS
     mount_exfat [-o options] [-u uid] [-g gid] [-m mask] device directory

DESCRIPTION
     The mount_exfat command mounts the ExFAT filesystem from the device device
     onto the directory given by directory.  This command is normally invoked by
     diskarbitrationd(8) as the result of detecting a device with a file system
     recognized as ExFAT.  It can also be invoked indirectly by executing the
     mount(8) command with the -t exfat option.

     The options are as follows:

     -o options
             Use the specified mount options, as described in mount(8).

     -u uid  Set the owner of the files in the file system to uid.  The default
             owner is the owner of the directory on which the file system is
             being mounted.

     -g gid  Set the group of the files in the file system to gid.  The default
             group is the group of the directory on which the file system is
             being mounted.

     -m mask
             Specify the maximum file permissions for files in the file system.
             (For example, a mask of 755 specifies that, by default, the owner
             should have read, write, and execute permissions for files, but
             others should only have read and execute permissions.  See chmod(1)
             for more information about octal file modes.)  Only the nine low-
             order bits of mask are used.  The default mask is taken from the
             directory on which the file system is being mounted.

     If none of the -u, -g, or -m options are given, the volume will be mounted
     with the MNT_UNKNOWNPERMISSIONS flag (equivalent to the -o noowners
     option).

     If the device is internal and not removable, the volume will be mounted
     with the MNT_ASYNC flag (equivalent to the -o async option) by default.
     That default can be overridden with the -o noasync option.  When mounted
     with the -o noasync option, metadata updates are synced to disk frequently
     (by default, 50ms after the system call that changed the metadata returns
     to its caller).

SEE ALSO
     fsck_exfat(8), exfat.util(8), mount(2), unmount(2), fstab(5), mount(8)

HISTORY
     The mount_exfat utility first appeared in Mac OS X 10.6.3.

