netbiosd(8)                  System Manager's Manual                 netbiosd(8)

NAME
     netbiosd – NetBIOS protocol daemon

SYNOPSIS
     netbiosd [options]

DESCRIPTION
     netbiosd is responsible for interacting with NetBIOS networks.  netbiosd
     registers and defends one or more NetBIOS name, depending on the set of
     configured services. It also browses and scavenges names from the NetBIOS
     network, making them available to the system through mDNSResponder.

OPTIONS
     -debug   The service will log extensive debug information and may perform
              extra diagnostic checks. This option is typically only useful for
              debugging.

     -dump-packets
              Pretty-print all sent and received NetBIOS packets to the output
              log. This option is typically only useful for debugging.

     -help    Prints a usage message and exits.

     -max-refresh
              Maximum time (in seconds) between searches to refresh the
              workgroup list.

     -min-refresh
              Minimum time (in seconds) between searches to refresh the
              workgroup list.

     -stdout  Causes netbiosd to print log messages to standard output instead
              of the system log.

FILES
     /Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/com.apple.smb.server.plist
              The primary configuration for the SMB stack. This file is updated
              by various system services and should not be edited by hand.

     /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.netbiosd.plist
              The netbiosd service's property list file for launchd(8).

SIGNALS
     SIGHUP   This signal causes netbiosd to reconfigure. It will first
              unregister any NetBIOS names it has registered.  Then it will
              determine its new set of NetBIOS names and register those.

     SIGUSR1  This signal causes netbiosd to toggle debug logging.

SEE ALSO
     launchd(8), mDNSResponder(8)

STANDARDS
     The TCP/UDP embodiment of the NetBIOS protocol is documented in

     RFC 1002
              Protocol standard for a NetBIOS service on a TCP/UDP: Detailed
              Specifications, 1987

     RFC 1001
              Protocol standard for a NetBIOS service on a TCP/UDP: Concepts and
              Methods, 1987

     The NetBIOS browsing protocol is documented as part of the Microsoft Work
     Group Server Protocol Program (WSPP) technical documentation set,
     specifically

     MS-BRWS  Common Internet File System (CIFS) Browser Protocol Specification

HISTORY
     The netbiosd utility first appeared in Mac OS 10.7.

