nlcontrol(8)                 System Manager's Manual                nlcontrol(8)

NAME
     nlcontrol – NETLOGON secure channel utility

SYNOPSIS
     nlcontrol [reconfigure] status [options] status
     nlcontrol [options] verify
     nlcontrol [options] change-password

DESCRIPTION
     The NETLOGON channel is a secure connection to a Windows Domain Controller
     that is used for non-Kerberos user authentication.  nlcontrol can be used
     to manipulate and test the status of the NETLOGON channel.

OPTIONS
     -domain  The service will log extensive debug information and may perform
              extra diagnostic checks. This option is typically only useful for
              debugging.

     -help    Prints a usage message and exits.

     -server list
              The service will listen on each of the TCP ports specified in the
              comma-separated list. This option is typically only used for
              debugging.

     nlcontrol supports the following commands:

     reconfigure      Force the NETLOGON service to re-read its configuration
                      information. This is not necessary in normal operation,
                      since the NETLOGON service will detect relevant
                      configuration changes and re-establish the secure channel
                      automatically.

     status           Print the current status of the NETLOGON channel without
                      altering its state.

     verify           Attempt to verify that the NETLOGON channel is available
                      and working correctly.

     change-password  Bring up the NETLOGON channel and change the password of
                      the machine account.  The machine account is used to
                      authenticate to the Domain Controller in order to secure
                      the channel.

DIAGNOSTICS
     nlcontrol will exit with a non-zero error code if the command fails. It may
     also display a Windows error code, which is typically self-explanatory.

HISTORY
     The nlcontrol utility first appeared in Mac OS 10.7.

