PBS(8)                       System Manager's Manual                      PBS(8)

NAME
     pbs – general helper tool

SYNOPSIS
     pbs [-debug] [-dump_pboard] [-dump_userdefs] [-flush_pboard]
         [-flush_userdefs] language1 language2 ...

DESCRIPTION
     pbs is an agent for the Services menu.  It scans for and vends available
     Services, to populate the Services menu.

     pbs is NOT related to the pasteboard.  The pasteboard is managed by the
     pboard agent.

     pbs normally runs the first time Services are needed in any login session.
     You may run it manually for debugging Services. If run without any options,
     pbs will scan for changed Services, cache them along with their English
     localization on a private pasteboard, and immediately update the Services
     menu in all running apps. It will also log about any invalid Services
     declarations in Info.plist. This is useful when developing or testing
     Services, because it immediately applies any changes.

     ServicesMenu.strings files for a localization are loaded only when an app
     running under that localization shows the Services menu.  You may pass pbs
     language codes (e.g. "fr") to cause it to load that localization
     immediately.

     pbs has additional options that are useful for debugging, in particular the
     -dump_pboard option. The complete list of options is:

     -debug
         Output debugging information regarding what pbs is doing.

     -dump_pboard
         Prints the private pasteboard containing the current Services
         information.  You can use this to determine which apps are providing
         Services and where they are located on the filesystem.

     -dump_userdefs
         Prints the userdef cache of Services information.  pbs caches Services
         information in its userdefs to avoid scanning the entire system every
         boot.  Changed apps are still detected via FSEvents, so there is no
         need to flush the userdef cache when installing a new Service.

     -flush_pboard
         Erases the private pasteboard containing Services information.  The
         next time the Services menu is shown, pbs will scan for changed
         Services and update the pasteboard.

     -flush_userdefs
         Erases the userdef cache.

     -flush
         Equivalent to -flush_pboard and -flush_userdefs, entirely resetting
         pbs. The next time Services information is needed, pbs will do a
         complete rescan for apps vending Services, and read their plist.  Note:
         this rescan may be very expensive!

HISTORY
     First appeared in NextStep.  pbs has historically had responsibilities that
     ranged from pasteboard management to Unicode glyph generation, but now it
     only does Services.

