QMQPD(8)                     System Manager's Manual                    QMQPD(8)




NAME
       qmqpd - Postfix QMQP server

SYNOPSIS
       qmqpd [generic Postfix daemon options]

DESCRIPTION
       The Postfix QMQP server receives one message per connection.  Each
       message is piped through the cleanup(8) daemon, and is placed into the
       incoming queue as one single queue file.  The program expects to be run
       from the master(8) process manager.

       The QMQP server implements one access policy: only explicitly authorized
       client hosts are allowed to use the service.

SECURITY
       The QMQP server is moderately security-sensitive. It talks to QMQP
       clients and to DNS servers on the network. The QMQP server can be run
       chrooted at fixed low privilege.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems and transactions are logged to syslogd(8).

BUGS
       The QMQP protocol provides only one server reply per message delivery. It
       is therefore not possible to reject individual recipients.

       The QMQP protocol requires the server to receive the entire message
       before replying. If a message is malformed, or if any netstring component
       is longer than acceptable, Postfix replies immediately and closes the
       connection. It is left up to the client to handle the situation.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       Changes to main.cf are picked up automatically, as qmqpd(8) processes run
       for only a limited amount of time. Use the command "postfix reload" to
       speed up a change.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

CONTENT INSPECTION CONTROLS

       content_filter (empty)
              After the message is queued, send the entire message to the
              specified transport:destination.

       receive_override_options (empty)
              Enable or disable recipient validation, built-in content
              filtering, or address mapping.

SMTPUTF8 CONTROLS
       Preliminary SMTPUTF8 support is introduced with Postfix 3.0.

       smtputf8_enable (yes)
              Enable preliminary SMTPUTF8 support for the protocols described in
              RFC 6531..6533.

       smtputf8_autodetect_classes (sendmail, verify)
              Detect that a message requires SMTPUTF8 support for the specified
              mail origin classes.

       Available in Postfix version 3.2 and later:

       enable_idna2003_compatibility (no)
              Enable 'transitional' compatibility between IDNA2003 and IDNA2008,
              when converting UTF-8 domain names to/from the ASCII form that is
              used for DNS lookups.

RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROLS

       line_length_limit (2048)
              Upon input, long lines are chopped up into pieces of at most this
              length; upon delivery, long lines are reconstructed.

       hopcount_limit (50)
              The maximal number of Received:  message headers that is allowed
              in the primary message headers.

       message_size_limit (10240000)
              The maximal size in bytes of a message, including envelope
              information.

       qmqpd_timeout (300s)
              The time limit for sending or receiving information over the
              network.

TROUBLE SHOOTING CONTROLS

       debug_peer_level (2)
              The increment in verbose logging level when a remote client or
              server matches a pattern in the debug_peer_list parameter.

       debug_peer_list (empty)
              Optional list of remote client or server hostname or network
              address patterns that cause the verbose logging level to increase
              by the amount specified in $debug_peer_level.

       soft_bounce (no)
              Safety net to keep mail queued that would otherwise be returned to
              the sender.

TARPIT CONTROLS

       qmqpd_error_delay (1s)
              How long the Postfix QMQP server will pause before sending a
              negative reply to the remote QMQP client.

MISCELLANEOUS CONTROLS

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
              configuration files.

       daemon_timeout (18000s)
              How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
              request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.

       ipc_timeout (3600s)
              The time limit for sending or receiving information over an
              internal communication channel.

       max_idle (100s)
              The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process
              waits for an incoming connection before terminating voluntarily.

       max_use (100)
              The maximal number of incoming connections that a Postfix daemon
              process will service before terminating voluntarily.

       process_id (read-only)
              The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       process_name (read-only)
              The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       qmqpd_authorized_clients (empty)
              What remote QMQP clients are allowed to connect to the Postfix
              QMQP server port.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog records,
              so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".

       verp_delimiter_filter (-=+)
              The characters Postfix accepts as VERP delimiter characters on the
              Postfix sendmail(1) command line and in SMTP commands.

       Available in Postfix version 2.5 and later:

       qmqpd_client_port_logging (no)
              Enable logging of the remote QMQP client port in addition to the
              hostname and IP address.

SEE ALSO
       http://cr.yp.to/proto/qmqp.html, QMQP protocol
       cleanup(8), message canonicalization
       master(8), process manager
       syslogd(8), system logging

README FILES
       Use "postconf readme_directory" or "postconf html_directory" to locate
       this information.
       QMQP_README, Postfix ezmlm-idx howto.

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

HISTORY
       The qmqpd service was introduced with Postfix version 1.1.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



