QUOTACHECK(8)                System Manager's Manual               QUOTACHECK(8)

NAME
     quotacheck – filesystem quota consistency checker

SYNOPSIS
     quotacheck [-g] [-u] [-v] filesystem ...
     quotacheck [-g] [-u] [-v] -a

DESCRIPTION
     Quotacheck examines each filesystem, builds a table of current disk usage,
     and compares this table against that recorded in the disk quota file for
     the filesystem.  If any inconsistencies are detected, both the quota file
     and the current system copy of the incorrect quotas are updated (the latter
     only occurs if an active filesystem is checked).  By default both user and
     group quotas are checked.

     Available options:

     -a      If the -a flag is supplied in place of any filesystem names,
             quotacheck will check all the read-write filesystems with an
             existing mount option file at its root.  The mount option file
             specifies the types of quotas that are to be checked.

     -g      Only group quotas are checked. The mount option file,
             .quota.ops.group, must exist at the root of the filesystem.

     -u      Only user quotas are checked.  The mount option file,
             .quota.ops.user, must exist at the root of the filesystem.

     -v      quotacheck reports discrepancies between the calculated and
             recorded disk quotas.

     Specifying both -g and -u is equivalent to the default.  Parallel passes
     are run on the filesystems required, in an identical fashion to fsck(8).

     Normally quotacheck operates silently.

     Quotacheck expects each filesystem being checked to have quota data files
     named .quota.user and/or .quota.group located at the filesystem root.  If a
     binary data file is not present, quotacheck will create it.  The default
     filename and root location cannot be overridden.

     Quotacheck is normally run at fsck time.

     Quotacheck accesses the raw device in calculating the actual disk usage for
     each user.  Thus, the filesystems checked should be quiescent while
     quotacheck is running.

FILES
     Each of the following quota files is located at the root of the mounted
     filesystem.  The mount option files are empty files whose existence
     indicates that quotas are to be enabled for that filesystem. The binary
     data files will be created by quotacheck, if they don't already exist.

     .quota.user       data file containing user quotas
     .quota.group      data file containing group quotas
     .quota.ops.user   mount option file used to enable user quotas
     .quota.ops.group  mount option file used to enable group quotas

SEE ALSO
     quota(1), quotactl(2), edquota(8), fsck(8), quotaon(8), repquota(8)

HISTORY
     The quotacheck command appeared in 4.2BSD.

