RENICE(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   RENICE(8)

NAME
     renice – alter priority of running processes

SYNOPSIS
     renice priority [[-gpu] target]
     renice -n increment [[-gpu] target]

DESCRIPTION
     The renice utility alters the scheduling priority of one or more running
     processes.  The following target parameters are interpreted as process ID's
     (the default), process group ID's, user ID's or user names.  The renice'ing
     of a process group causes all processes in the process group to have their
     scheduling priority altered.  The renice'ing of a user causes all processes
     owned by the user to have their scheduling priority altered.

     The following options are available:

     -n      Instead of changing the specified processes to the given priority,
             interpret the following argument as an increment to be applied to
             the current priority of each process.

     -g      Interpret target parameters as process group ID's.

     -p      Interpret target parameters as process ID's (the default).

     -u      Interpret target parameters as user names or user ID's.

     Users other than the super-user may only alter the priority of processes
     they own, and can only monotonically increase their ``nice value'' within
     the range 0 to PRIO_MAX (20).  (This prevents overriding administrative
     fiats.)  The super-user may alter the priority of any process and set the
     priority to any value in the range PRIO_MIN (-20) to PRIO_MAX.  Useful
     priorities are: 20 (the affected processes will run only when nothing else
     in the system wants to), 0 (the ``base'' scheduling priority), anything
     negative (to make things go very fast).

FILES
     /etc/passwd  to map user names to user ID's

EXAMPLES
     Change the priority of process ID's 987 and 32, and all processes owned by
     users daemon and root.

           renice +1 987 -u daemon root -p 32

SEE ALSO
     nice(1), rtprio(1), getpriority(2), setpriority(2)

STANDARDS
     The renice utility conforms to IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 (“POSIX.1”).

HISTORY
     The renice utility appeared in 4.0BSD.

BUGS
     Non super-users cannot increase scheduling priorities of their own
     processes, even if they were the ones that decreased the priorities in the
     first place.

