rpcbind(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  rpcbind(8)

NAME
     rpcbind – portmap

SYNOPSIS
     rpcbind [-d] [-v] [-h bindip]

DESCRIPTION
     Rpcbind is a server that converts RPC program numbers into DARPA protocol
     port numbers.  It is a replacement for the older portmap program.

     rpcbind supports the original version 2 portmap protocol and in addition
     supports the newer version 3 and version 4 protocols that are necessary for
     IPv6 support.  It must be running on the server in order to make RPC calls.

     When an RPC server is started, it will tell rpcbind what address it is
     listening to, and what RPC program numbers it is prepared to serve.  When a
     client wishes to make an RPC call to a given program number, it will first
     contact rpcbind on the server machine to determine the address where RPC
     packets should be sent.

     rpcbind is a launchd service. When the first server tries to register with
     rpcbind the RPC library will contact launchd and arrange for rpcbind to be
     started.  Note it is no longer possible to run rpcbind from the command
     line.  rpcbind logs errors and information using os_log(3).  rpcbind uses
     hosts_access(5) for access control; note access control patterns may only
     reference IP addresses.

     The following options are available and will need to be added to the
     rpcbind plist file.

     -d      causes rpcbind errors and debugging information to be printed to
             the standard error output via os_log. This option is no longer very
             useful.

     -v      Enable verbose logging of access control checks.

     -h      Specify specific IP addresses to bind to for UDP requests.  This
             option may be specified multiple times and is typically necessary
             when running on a multi-homed host.  If no -h option is specified,
             rpcbind will bind to INADDR_ANY, which could lead to problems on a
             multi-homed host due to rpcbind returning a UDP packet from a
             different IP address than it was sent to.  Note that when
             specifying IP addresses with -h, rpcbind will automatically add
             127.0.0.1 to the list.

FILES
     /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.rpcbind.plist  launchd.plist(5)
                                                            file for rpcbind.
                                                            Options should be
                                                            added here.

     /usr/share/sandbox/rpcbind.sb                          sandbox(7) file for
                                                            rpcbind.

SEE ALSO
     hosts_access(5), launchd.plist(5), launchd(8), rpcinfo(8)

BUGS
     If rpcbind crashes, all servers must be restarted.

     Version 4 getstat procedure is not implemented and will always return 0 and
     null values.  RPC_SYSTEMERROR.

     -h option is not supported for IPv6.

