RTADVD(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   RTADVD(8)

NAME
     rtadvd – router advertisement daemon

SYNOPSIS
     rtadvd [-dDfMRs] [-c configfile] [-F dumpfile] [-p pidfile] interface ...

DESCRIPTION
     rtadvd sends router advertisement packets to the specified interfaces.

     The program will daemonize itself on invocation.  It will then send router
     advertisement packets periodically, as well as in response to router
     solicitation messages sent by end hosts.

     Router advertisements can be configured on a per-interface basis, as
     described in rtadvd.conf(5).

     If there is no configuration file entry for an interface, or if the
     configuration file does not exist altogether, rtadvd sets all the
     parameters to their default values.  In particular, rtadvd reads all the
     interface routes from the routing table and advertises them as on-link
     prefixes.

     rtadvd also watches the routing table.  If an interface direct route is
     added on an advertising interface and no static prefixes are specified by
     the configuration file, rtadvd adds the corresponding prefix to its
     advertising list.

     Similarly, when an interface direct route is deleted, rtadvd will start
     advertising the prefixes with zero valid and preferred lifetimes to help
     the receiving hosts switch to a new prefix when renumbering.  Note,
     however, that the zero valid lifetime cannot invalidate the autoconfigured
     addresses at a receiving host immediately.  According to the specification,
     the host will retain the address for a certain period, which will typically
     be two hours.  The zero lifetimes rather intend to make the address
     deprecated, indicating that a new non-deprecated address should be used as
     the source address of a new connection.  This behavior will last for two
     hours.  Then rtadvd will completely remove the prefix from the advertising
     list, and succeeding advertisements will not contain the prefix
     information.

     Moreover, if the status of an advertising interface changes, rtadvd will
     start or stop sending router advertisements according to the latest status.

     The -s option may be used to disable this behavior; rtadvd will not watch
     the routing table and the whole functionality described above will be
     suppressed.

     Basically, hosts MUST NOT send Router Advertisement messages at any time
     (RFC 2461, Section 6.2.3).  However, it would sometimes be useful to allow
     hosts to advertise some parameters such as prefix information and link MTU.
     Thus, rtadvd can be invoked if router lifetime is explicitly set zero on
     every advertising interface.

     The command line options are:

     -c      Specify an alternate location, configfile, for the configuration
             file.  By default, /etc/rtadvd.conf is used.

     -d      Print debugging information.

     -D      Even more debugging information is printed.

     -f      This option is now deprecated and ignored.

     -F      Specify an alternative file in which to dump internal states when
             rtadvd receives signal SIGUSR1.  The default is
             /var/run/rtadvd.dump.

     -M      Specify an interface to join the all-routers site-local multicast
             group.  By default, rtadvd tries to join the first advertising
             interface appearing on the command line.  This option has meaning
             only with the -R option, which enables routing renumbering protocol
             support.

     -p      Specify an alternative file in which to store the process ID.  The
             default is /var/run/rtadvd.pid.

     -R      Accept router renumbering requests.  If you enable it, certain
             IPsec setup is suggested for security reasons.  This option is
             currently disabled, and is ignored by rtadvd with a warning
             message.

     -s      Do not add or delete prefixes dynamically.  Only statically
             configured prefixes, if any, will be advertised.

     Upon receipt of signal SIGUSR1, rtadvd will dump the current internal state
     into /var/run/rtadvd.dump or the file specified with option -F.

     Use SIGTERM to kill rtadvd gracefully.  In this case, rtadvd will transmit
     router advertisement with router lifetime 0 to all the interfaces (in
     accordance with RFC2461 6.2.5).

FILES
     /etc/rtadvd.conf                  The default configuration file.
     /var/run/rtadvd.pid               The default process ID file.
     /var/run/rtadvd.dump              The default file in which rtadvd dumps
                                       its internal state.

EXIT STATUS
     The rtadvd utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

SEE ALSO
     rtadvd.conf(5), rtsol(8)

HISTORY
     The rtadvd command first appeared in the WIDE Hydrangea IPv6 protocol stack
     kit.

BUGS
     There used to be some text that recommended users not to let rtadvd
     advertise Router Advertisement messages on an upstream link to avoid
     undesirable icmp6(4) redirect messages.  However, based on the later
     discussion in the IETF ipng working group, all routers should rather
     advertise the messages regardless of the network topology, in order to
     ensure reachability.

