SCUTIL(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   SCUTIL(8)

NAME
     scutil – Manage system configuration parameters

SYNOPSIS
     scutil
     scutil --prefs [preference-file]
     scutil -r [-W] { nodename | address | local-address remote-address }
     scutil -w dynamic-store-key [-t timeout]
     scutil --get pref
     scutil --set pref [newval]
     scutil --dns
     scutil --proxy
     scutil --nc nc-arguments

DESCRIPTION
     Invoked with no options, scutil provides a command line interface to the
     "dynamic store" data maintained by configd(8).  Interaction with this data
     (using the SystemConfiguration.framework SCDynamicStore APIs) is handled
     with a set of commands read from standard input.  A list of the available
     commands is available by entering the help directive.

     The --prefs option provides a command line interface to the [raw] stored
     preference data.  Interaction with this data (using the
     SystemConfiguration.framework SCPreferences APIs) is handled with a set of
     commands read from standard input.  A list of the available commands is
     availble by entering the help directive.

     The -r option provides a means of checking the network reachability of a
     host, an IP address, or a pair of local and remote IP addresses.  Network
     "reachability" is a term that indicates whether network communication is
     possible between the current host and the specified host.

     The -w option provides a means of checking for (and optionally waiting for
     the creation of or posting of a notification to) a dynamic store key.

     The --get and --set options provide a means of reporting and updating a
     select group of persistent system preferences.

     The --dns option reports the current DNS configuration.  The first listed
     resolver(5) configuration is considered to be the "default" configuration.
     Additional "supplemental" configurations follow.  Those containing a
     "domain" name will be used for queries matching the specified domain.
     Those without will be used as a "default" configuration in addition to the
     first listed.

     The --proxy option reports the current system proxy configuration.

     The --nc option provides a set of commands for monitoring and interacting
     with VPN connections.  Use --nc help for a full list of commands.

OPTIONS
     -r [-W] { nodename | address | local-address remote-address }
         Check the network reachability of the specified host name, IP address,
         or a pair of local and remote IP addresses.  One or more of the
         following strings will be reported to standard output.

         Not Reachable         The specified nodename/address cannot be reached
                               using the current network configuration.

         Reachable             The specified nodename/address can be reached
                               using the current network configuration.

         Transient Connection  The specified nodename/address can be reached via
                               a transient (e.g. PPP) connection.

         Connection Required   The specified nodename/address can be reached
                               using the current network configuration but a
                               connection must first be established.  As an
                               example, this status would be returned for a
                               dialup connection that was not currently active
                               but could handle network traffic for the target
                               system.

         Connection Automatic  The specified nodename/address can be reached
                               using the current network configuration but a
                               connection must first be established.  Any
                               traffic directed to the specified name/address
                               will initiate the connection.

         Local Address         The specified nodename/address is one associated
                               with a network interface on the system.

         Directly Reachable Addresss
                               Network traffic to the specified nodename/address
                               will not go through a gateway but is routed
                               directly to one of the interfaces on the system.

         The reachability can also be monitored by specifying the -W (watch)
         option.  This will result in the current status being reported as well
         as the status when/if the network configuration changes.

         A zero exit status will be returned when the reachability status is
         reported correctly.  A non-zero exit status will be returned if errors
         are detected with an error reported to standard error.

     -w dynamic-store-key [-t timeout]
         Check if the specified key exists in the "dynamic store" data
         maintained by configd(8).  If present, scutil will return with a zero
         exit status.  If not present, scutil will wait for the specified time
         for data to be associated with or a notification to be posted using the
         key.  A non-zero exit status will be returned if the key was not
         created/posted within the specified time.

         scutil will wait indefinitely if a timeout of 0 seconds is specified.
         The default timeout is 15 seconds.

     --get pref
         Retrieves the specified preference.  The current value will be reported
         on standard output.

         Supported preferences include:

               ComputerName   The user-friendly name for the system.

               LocalHostName  The local (Bonjour) host name.

               HostName       The name associated with hostname(1) and
                              gethostname(3).

     --set pref [newval]
         Updates the specified preference with the new value.  If the new value
         is not specified on the command line then it will be read from standard
         input.

         Supported preferences include: ComputerName LocalHostName HostName

         The --set option requires super-user access.

     --dns
         Reports the current DNS configuration.

     --proxy
         Reports the current proxy configuration.

     --nc nc-arguments
         Provides a set of commands for monitoring and interacting with VPN
         connections. Use --nc help for a full list of commands.

SEE ALSO
     configd(8)

HISTORY
     The scutil command appeared in Mac OS X Public Beta.

