SHOWQ(8)                     System Manager's Manual                    SHOWQ(8)




NAME
       showq - list the Postfix mail queue

SYNOPSIS
       showq [generic Postfix daemon options]

DESCRIPTION
       The showq(8) daemon reports the Postfix mail queue status.  The output is
       meant to be formatted by the postqueue(1) command, as it emulates the
       Sendmail `mailq' command.

       The showq(8) daemon can also be run in stand-alone mode by the superuser.
       This mode of operation is used to emulate the `mailq' command while the
       Postfix mail system is down.

SECURITY
       The showq(8) daemon can run in a chroot jail at fixed low privilege, and
       takes no input from the client. Its service port is accessible to local
       untrusted users, so the service can be susceptible to denial of service
       attacks.

STANDARDS
       None. The showq(8) daemon does not interact with the outside world.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Problems and transactions are logged to syslogd(8).

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       Changes to main.cf are picked up automatically as showq(8) processes run
       for only a limited amount of time. Use the command "postfix reload" to
       speed up a change.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
              configuration files.

       daemon_timeout (18000s)
              How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
              request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.

       duplicate_filter_limit (1000)
              The maximal number of addresses remembered by the address
              duplicate filter for aliases(5) or virtual(5) alias expansion, or
              for showq(8) queue displays.

       empty_address_recipient (MAILER-DAEMON)
              The recipient of mail addressed to the null address.

       ipc_timeout (3600s)
              The time limit for sending or receiving information over an
              internal communication channel.

       max_idle (100s)
              The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process
              waits for an incoming connection before terminating voluntarily.

       max_use (100)
              The maximal number of incoming connections that a Postfix daemon
              process will service before terminating voluntarily.

       process_id (read-only)
              The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       process_name (read-only)
              The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog records,
              so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".

       Available in Postfix version 2.9 and later:

       enable_long_queue_ids (no)
              Enable long, non-repeating, queue IDs (queue file names).

FILES
       /var/spool/postfix, queue directories

SEE ALSO
       pickup(8), local mail pickup service
       cleanup(8), canonicalize and enqueue mail
       qmgr(8), queue manager
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       master(8), process manager
       syslogd(8), system logging

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



