smbd(8)                      System Manager's Manual                     smbd(8)

NAME
     smbd – SMB server daemon

SYNOPSIS
     smbd [options]

DESCRIPTION
     smbd runs on a server machine to service SMB protocol requests from SMB
     client machines.

OPTIONS
     -debug   The service will log extensive debug information and may perform
              extra diagnostic checks. In debug mode, smbd will not exit when
              idle.

     -help    Prints a usage message and exits.

     -ports list
              The service will listen on each of the TCP ports specified in the
              comma-separated list. This option is typically only used for
              debugging, since smbd is normally launched by launchd(8) on port
              445.

     -stdout  Causes smbd to print log messages to standard output instead of
              the system log.

     -no-symlinks
              In normal operation, smbd will respond to client symlink requests
              but will never follow symlinks itself. This flag causes smbd to
              restrict client access to symlink operations and to always follow
              symlinks. In this case, clients will not be aware that symlinks
              are in use because they will always be directed to the symlink
              target.

FILES
     /Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/com.apple.smb.server.plist
              The primary configuration for the SMB stack. This file is updated
              by various system services and should not be edited by hand.

     /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.smbd.plist
              The smbd service's property list file for launchd(8).

SIGNALS
     SIGHUP   This signal causes smbd to re-read its configuration settings.

SEE ALSO
     launchd(8)

STANDARDS
     The SMB protocol is documented as part of the Microsoft Work Group Server
     Protocol Program (WSPP) technical documentation set, specifically

     MS-CIFS  Common Internet File System Specification

     MS-SMB   Server Message Block (SMB) Protocol Specification

HISTORY
     The smbd utility first appeared in Mac OS 10.7.

