SNDISKMOVE(8)                System Manager's Manual               SNDISKMOVE(8)



NAME
       sndiskmove - Xsan File System Disk Mover Utility

SYNOPSIS
       sndiskmove [-fqv] [-s suffix] [-b bufMB] [-S file]
              SourceVolume_DestinationVolume

DESCRIPTION
       sndiskmove is a utility for migrating the contents of a disk to a new
       disk.  This is accomplished by copying the data from the disk and
       relabeling the destination disk with the name of the source disk.  The
       source disk is also relabeled with its original name with a suffix added
       (this is ".old" by default but this can be changed with the -s option.

       WARNING: Using this command incorrectly can cause loss of data.  Please
       ensure that you understand the procedures to safely execute this command
       completely.  Also, this command is not supported for filesystem disks
       that contain data, it must be used for Exclusive Metadata or Journal
       disks only.

       Attempting to run this command on a disk that is being used on an
       actively running filesystem will cause data corruption.  All referencing
       filesystems must be stopped and remain stopped during the processing of
       this command.

       If successful, the command will cause the local fsmpm process to rescan
       the disks on the host where the command is executed.  If there are any
       FSMs configured on other hosts, it is critical to request a rescan of the
       disks before reenabling the FSM on those servers by invoking

          cvadmin -e 'disks refresh'

       on those hosts.

OPTIONS
       -f     Forces the disk data to be moved without confirmation from the
              user.  WARNING: Use this flag with extreme caution!

       -q     Run in quiet mode.  This disables the progress display.

       -v     Causes sndiskmove to be verbose.

       -s suffix
              Uses the supplied suffix to relabel the source disk.

       -b bufsizeMB
              Specifies the buffer size to use for the copying of disk data (in
              megabytes).  The default value is 4MB.

       -S file
              Writes status monitoring information in the supplied file.  This
              is used internally by Xsan and the format of this file may change.

NOTES
       The source and destination disks must contain EFI labels. VTOC labels are
       not supported. Also, the sector sizes used by the source and destination
       disks must be the same.

SEE ALSO
       cvadmin(8), cvlabel(8)



