SNREST(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   SNREST(8)



NAME
       snrest - Administer Xsan Volume REST API access

SYNOPSIS
       snrest gateway admin-url url

       snrest gateway import filename

       snrest gateway show

       snrest gateway remove

       snrest gateway register [ url ]

       snrest gateway unregister

       snrest gateway status [-d]

       snrest gateway ping [url]

       snrest gateway ping [-f filename]

       snrest config set [name=value...]

       snrest config clear [name...]

       snrest config show

DESCRIPTION
       The snrest program supports control and status display for REST API
       access to the Xsan Volume.

       The snrest gateway commands support configuration and control of StorNext
       interactions with a Quantum API Gateway.

       The snrest gateway import command imports configuration information from
       a Quantum API Gateway.  This command takes a single argument which is a
       filename containing contact and authentication information and must be
       obtained from a Quantum API Gateway.

       Alternatively, the snrest gateway admin-url command is a simpler form for
       configuring access to the API Gateway.  Use this command only if your
       site has not configured site-specific authentication for gateway
       registration (in which case you must use snrest gateway import instead).

       With snrest gateway admin-url simply specify the URL of the API Gateway
       as a command line argument.  If the protocol is not specified it defaults
       to https and if the port is not specified it defaults to 8443.  This
       allows the caller to only specify the hostname, as in the following
       example:

          snrest gateway admin-url <hostname>

       which is the same as explicitly specifying the following:

          snrest gateway admin-url https://<hostname>:8443

       The snrest gateway show command displays the API Gateway configuration.

       The snrest gateway remove command removes the API Gateway configuration
       and unregisters the system with the API Gateway.

       The snrest gateway register command registers with the API Gateway.  This
       needs to be called if you use snrest gateway import or snrest gateway
       admin-url commands to change the API Gateway configuration.  If the
       gateway is not available when this is called, the system will continue to
       periodically retry until registration succeeds.  This command does not
       implicitly unregister with the previously registered gateway so if you
       are changing gateways run snrest gateway unregister after configuring
       your new gateway but before registering as in the following example:

          snrest gateway admin-url <new-hostname>
          snrest gateway unregister
          snrest gateway register

       This works because snrest gateway unregister uses the currently
       registered gateway, not the configured gateway.  Then snrest gateway
       register uses the newly-configured gateway.

       An optional URL parameter may be specified to snrest gateway register.
       The following command:

          snrest gateway register <url>

       results in the same actions as if the following commands were issued:

          snrest gateway admin-url <url>
          snrest gateway register

       This allows the caller to configure the URL and register with the API
       Gateway in a single command.  And, as with the snrest gateway admin-url
       command, the URL specified can be just the hostname if using the default
       port and protocol.

       The snrest gateway unregister command unregisters with the currently
       registered Quantum API Gateway.  However, once unregistered, the system
       will continue to try periodically to re-register with the configured
       gateway.  So, to stop any attempt to register with a gateway do the
       following to remove the configuration and unregister:

          snrest gateway remove

       The snrest gateway status command displays the current status of the
       StorNext registrations with a Quantum API Gateway.  This typically
       reports that either all or none of the internal endpoints in StorNext are
       registered.  But there is also the possibility, especially in transitory
       states or when connectivity to the API Gateway is problematic, that only
       a subset of the internal endpoints are registered.  If any endpoints are
       not currently registered the system will continue to try to register
       those endpoints until successful.

       There is an additional option to get extra detail on the registration
       status with the -d option.  This provides a detailed display of
       individual internal endpoints that register with the API Gateway and thus
       is primarily intended for use by Quantum Support.

       The snrest gateway ping command tests connectivity to the API Gateway.
       If the API Gateway cannot be contacted an error message is displayed and
       the command exits with a non-zero exit status.  By default, the following
       will ping the currently configured API Gateway:

          snrest gateway ping

       Alternatively, you can ping a specific URL with:

          snrest gateway ping <url>

       or use a file with the gateway configuration with the -f option:

          snrest gateway ping -f <filename>

       In this latter case the file specified would be of the same form used
       with snrest gateway import.

       The snrest config commands support setting values in the
       /Library/Preferences/Xsan/snfs_rest_config.json file.  These values
       should only be changed in consultation with Apple support.  The names are
       hierachical value separated by spaces.  For example, to change the
       ssl_enabled value under the ssl json object to true:

          snrest config set ssl.ssl_enabled=true

       To remove the ssl_enabled value:

          snrest config clear ssl.ssl_enabled

       Changes to the snrest config values will take effect the next time that
       StorNext is restarted.

       The snrest config show command displays the current values of the Xsan
       REST configuration.

EXIT VALUES
       snrest will return 0 on success and non-zero on failure.



