softwareupdate(8)            System Manager's Manual           softwareupdate(8)

NAME
     softwareupdate – system software update tool

SYNOPSIS
     softwareupdate command [args ...]

DESCRIPTION
     Software Update checks for new and updated versions of your software based
     on information about your computer and current software.

     Invoke softwareupdate by specifying a command followed by zero or more
     args.

     softwareupdate requires admin authentication for all commands except
     --list.  If you run softwareupdate as a normal admin user, you will be
     prompted for a password where required. Alternatively, you can run
     softwareupdate as root and avoid all further authentication prompts.

     The following commands are available:

     -l | --list
                 List all available updates.

     -i | --install
                 Each update specified by args is downloaded and installed.
                 args can be one of the following:

                 -r | --recommended
                             All updates that are recommended for your system.
                             These are prefixed with a * character in the --list
                             output.

                 -R | --restart
                             Automatically restart (or shut down) if required to
                             complete installation. If the user invoking this
                             tool is logged in then macOS will attempt to quit
                             all applications, logout, and restart. If the user
                             is not logged in, macOS will trigger a forced
                             reboot if necessary. If you wish to always perform
                             a forced reboot, pass -f (--force).

                 -a | --all  All updates that are applicable to your system,
                             including those non-recommended ones, which are
                             prefixed with a - character in the --list output.
                             (Non-recommended updates are uncommon in any case.)

                 item ...    One or more specified updates. The --list output
                             shows the item names you can specify here, prefixed
                             by the * or - characters. See EXAMPLES.

     -d | --download
                 Each update specified by args is downloaded but not installed.
                 The values of args are the same as for the --install command.
                 Updates downloaded with --download can be subsequently
                 installed with --install, or through the App Store (as long as
                 they remain applicable to your system).  Updates are downloaded
                 to /Library/Updates, but are not designed to be installed by
                 double-clicking the packages in that directory: always use
                 --install or the App Store to actually perform the install.

     --schedule  Returns the per-machine automatic (background) check
                 preference.

     -h | --help
                 Print command usage.

EXAMPLES
     The following examples are shown as given to the shell:

     softwareupdate --list

           Software Update Tool

           Finding available software
           Software Update found the following new or updated software:
              * Label: MacBookAirEFIUpdate2.4-2.4
                   Title: MacBook Air EFI Firmware Update, Version: 2.4, Size: 3817K, Recommended: YES, Action: restart,
              * Label: ProAppsQTCodecs-1.0
                   Title: ProApps QuickTime codecs, Version: 1.0, Size: 968K, Recommended: YES,
              * Label: JavaForOSX-1.0
                   Title: Java for OS X 2012-005, Version: 1.0, Size: 65288K, Recommended: YES,

     sudo softwareupdate --install JavaForOSX-1.0

           Software Update Tool

           Finding available software

           Downloading Java for OS X 2012-005
           Downloaded Java for OS X 2012-005
           Installing Java for OS X 2012-005
           Done with Java for OS X 2012-005
           Done.

     sudo softwareupdate --schedule

           Automatic check is on

Mac OS X                       September 11, 2012                       Mac OS X
