SPAWN(8)                     System Manager's Manual                    SPAWN(8)




NAME
       spawn - Postfix external command spawner

SYNOPSIS
       spawn [generic Postfix daemon options] command_attributes...

DESCRIPTION
       The spawn(8) daemon provides the Postfix equivalent of inetd.  It listens
       on a port as specified in the Postfix master.cf file and spawns an
       external command whenever a connection is established.  The connection
       can be made over local IPC (such as UNIX-domain sockets) or over
       non-local IPC (such as TCP sockets).  The command´s standard input,
       output and error streams are connected directly to the communication
       endpoint.

       This daemon expects to be run from the master(8) process manager.

COMMAND ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX
       The external command attributes are given in the master.cf file at the
       end of a service definition.  The syntax is as follows:

       user=username (required)

       user=username:groupname
              The external command is executed with the rights of the specified
              username.  The software refuses to execute commands with root
              privileges, or with the privileges of the mail system owner. If
              groupname is specified, the corresponding group ID is used instead
              of the group ID of username.

       argv=command... (required)
              The command to be executed. This must be specified as the last
              command attribute.  The command is executed directly, i.e. without
              interpretation of shell meta characters by a shell command
              interpreter.

BUGS
       In order to enforce standard Postfix process resource controls, the
       spawn(8) daemon runs only one external command at a time.  As such, it
       presents a noticeable overhead by wasting precious process resources. The
       spawn(8) daemon is expected to be replaced by a more structural solution.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The spawn(8) daemon reports abnormal child exits.  Problems are logged to
       syslogd(8).

SECURITY
       This program needs root privilege in order to execute external commands
       as the specified user. It is therefore security sensitive.  However the
       spawn(8) daemon does not talk to the external command and thus is not
       vulnerable to data-driven attacks.

CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
       Changes to main.cf are picked up automatically as spawn(8) processes run
       for only a limited amount of time. Use the command "postfix reload" to
       speed up a change.

       The text below provides only a parameter summary. See postconf(5) for
       more details including examples.

       In the text below, transport is the first field of the entry in the
       master.cf file.

RESOURCE AND RATE CONTROL

       transport_time_limit ($command_time_limit)
              The amount of time the command is allowed to run before it is
              terminated.

              Postfix 2.4 and later support a suffix that specifies the time
              unit: s (seconds), m (minutes), h (hours), d (days), w (weeks).
              The default time unit is seconds.

MISCELLANEOUS

       config_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The default location of the Postfix main.cf and master.cf
              configuration files.

       daemon_timeout (18000s)
              How much time a Postfix daemon process may take to handle a
              request before it is terminated by a built-in watchdog timer.

       export_environment (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The list of environment variables that a Postfix process will
              export to non-Postfix processes.

       ipc_timeout (3600s)
              The time limit for sending or receiving information over an
              internal communication channel.

       mail_owner (postfix)
              The UNIX system account that owns the Postfix queue and most
              Postfix daemon processes.

       max_idle (100s)
              The maximum amount of time that an idle Postfix daemon process
              waits for an incoming connection before terminating voluntarily.

       max_use (100)
              The maximal number of incoming connections that a Postfix daemon
              process will service before terminating voluntarily.

       process_id (read-only)
              The process ID of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       process_name (read-only)
              The process name of a Postfix command or daemon process.

       queue_directory (see 'postconf -d' output)
              The location of the Postfix top-level queue directory.

       syslog_facility (mail)
              The syslog facility of Postfix logging.

       syslog_name (see 'postconf -d' output)
              A prefix that is prepended to the process name in syslog records,
              so that, for example, "smtpd" becomes "prefix/smtpd".

SEE ALSO
       postconf(5), configuration parameters
       master(8), process manager
       syslogd(8), system logging

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA



