SPCTL(8)                     System Manager's Manual                    SPCTL(8)

NAME
     spctl – SecAssessment system policy security

SYNOPSIS
     spctl --assess [-t type] [-] file ...
     spctl --global-enable | --global-disable
     spctl --enable | --disable | --remove [-t type] [--path path]
           [--requirement requirement] [--anchor hash] [--hash hash]
     spctl --status

DESCRIPTION
     spctl manages the security assessment policy subsystem.

     This subsystem maintains and evaluates rules that determine whether the
     system allows the installation, execution, and other operations on files on
     the system.

     spctl requires one command option that determines its principal operation:

     --add    Add rule(s) to the system-wide assessment rule database.

     -a, --assess
              Requests that spctl perform an assessment on the files given.

     --disable
              Disable one or more rules in the assessment rule database.
              Disabled rules are not considered when performing assessment, but
              remain in the database and can be re-enabled later.

     --enable
              Enable rule(s) in the assessment rule database, counteracting
              earlier disabling.

     --disable

     --global-disable
              Disable the assessment subsystem altogether.  Operations that
              would be denied by system policy will be allowed to proceed;
              assessment APIs always report success.  Requires root access.

     --global-enable
              Enable the assessment subsystem.  Operations that are denied by
              system policy will fail; assessment APIs report the truth.
              Requires root access.

     --remove
              Remove rule(s) from the assessment rule database.

     --status
              Query whether the assessment subsystem is enabled or disabled.

     In addition, the following options are recognized:

     --anchor
              In rule update operations, indicates that the arguments are hashes
              of anchor certificates.

     --continue
              If the assessment of a file fails, continue assessing additional
              file arguments.  Without this option, the first failed assessment
              terminates operation.

     --hash   In rule update operations, indicates that the arguments are code
              directory hashes.

     --ignore-cache
              Do not query or use the assessment object cache.  This may
              significantly slow down operation.  Newly generated assessments
              may still be stored in the cache.

     --label label
              Specifies a string label to attach to new rules, or find in
              existing rules.  Labels are arbitrary strings that are assigned by
              convention.  Rule labels are optional.

     --no-cache
              Do not place the outcome of any assessments into the assessment
              object cache.  No other assessment may reuse this outcome.  This
              option not prohibit the use of existing cache entries.

     --path   In rule update operations, indicates that the argument(s) denote
              paths to files on disk.

     --priority priority
              In rule update operations, specifies the priority of the rule(s)
              created or changed.  Priorities are floating-point numbers.
              Higher numeric values indicate higher priority.

     --raw    When displaying the outcome of an assessment, write it as a "raw"
              XML plist instead of parsing it in somewhat more friendly form.
              This is useful when used in scripts, or to access newly invented
              assessment aspects that spctl does not yet know about.

     --requirement
              In rule update operations, indicates that the argument(s) are code
              requirement source.

     --reset-default
              Unconditionally reset the system policy database to its default
              value. This discards all changes made by administrators. It also
              heals any corruption to the database. It does not implicitly
              either enable or disable the facility. This must be done as the
              super user. Reboot after use.

     --rule   In rule update operations, indicates that the argument(s) are the
              index numbers of existing rules.

     -t, --type
              Specify which type of assessment is desired: execute to assess
              code execution, install to assess installation of an installer
              package, and open to assess the opening of documents.  The default
              is to assess execution.

     -v, --verbose
              Requests more verbose output.  Repeat the option or give it a
              higher numeric value to increase verbosity.

RULE SUBJECTS
     The system assessement rule database contains entries that match candidates
     based on Code Requirements.  spctl allows you to specify these requirements
     directly using the --requirement option.  In addition, individual programs
     on disk can be addressed with the --path option (which uses their
     Designated Requirement).  The --anchor option takes the hash of a (full)
     certificate and turns it into a requirement matching any signature based on
     that anchor certificate.  Alternatively, it can take the absolute path of a
     certificate file on disk, containing the DER form of an anchor certificate.
     Finally, the --hash option generates a code requirement that denotes only
     and exactly one program whose CodeDirectory hash is given.  The means of
     specifying subjects does not affect the remaining processing.

FILES
     /var/db/SystemPolicy  The system policy database.
     /var/db/.SystemPolicy-default
                           A copy of the initial distribution version of the
                           system policy database.  Useful for starting over if
                           the database gets messed up beyond recognition.

EXAMPLES
     To check whether Mail.app is allowed to run on the local system:
           spctl -a /Applications/Mail.app

     To allow Frobozz.app to run on the local system:
           spctl --add --label "My Stuff" /Applications/Frobozz.app

     To forbid all code obtained from the Mac App Store from running:
           spctl --disable --label "Mac App Store"

DIAGNOSTICS
     spctl exits zero on success, or one if an operation has failed.  Exit code
     two indicates unrecognized or unsuitable arguments.  If an assessment
     operation results in denial but no other problem has occurred, the exit
     code is three.

SEE ALSO
     codesign(1), syspolicyd(1)

HISTORY
     The system policy facility and spctl command first appeared in Mac OS X
     Lion 10.7.3 as a limited developer preview.

