taskgated(8)                 System Manager's Manual                taskgated(8)

NAME
     taskgated – task_for_pid access control daemon

SYNOPSIS
     taskgated [-s] [-t timeout] [-i pid]

DESCRIPTION
     taskgated is a system daemon that implements a policy for the task_for_pid
     system service.  When the kernel is asked for the task port of a process,
     and preliminary access control checks pass, it invokes this daemon (via
     launchd) to make the decision.

OPTIONS
     -t timeout
              The daemon will quit after that many seconds of inactivity. It
              will be relaunched by launchd as needed. A timeout of zero can be
              specified to make the daemon quit after servicing each request,
              but a small positive timeout is better for performance.

     -i pid   Inject the service port of taskgated into the process with the
              given pid, rather than relying on launchd to install it system-
              wide. This is for testing only, and requires the launchd
              configuration for taskgated to be removed.

AUTHORIZATION RIGHTS
     system.privilege.taskport  Authorization right used to check access of
                                allowed (but not safe) callers.

INFO KEYS
     SecTaskAccess  A value of "allowed" is required for any program that wants
                    access to task ports. A value of "safe" bypasses
                    authorization checks if so configured.  Code must be signed
                    by any system-trusted signing authority.

FILES
     /etc/authorization  to configure the authorization used.
     /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.taskgated
                         startup configuration file for taskgated

SEE ALSO
     security(1), launchd(8)

HISTORY
     taskgated was first introduced in Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard).

     Procmod and procview support (-p) was removed in 10.11.

     Certain software updates of Mac OS 10.4 (Tiger) introduced the convention
     requiring membership in the procmod or procview groups to control task port
     access. Before that, any process could obtain the task port of any other
     process with the same user-id.

