TMUTIL(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   TMUTIL(8)

NAME
     tmutil – Time Machine utility

SYNOPSIS
     tmutil verb [options]

DESCRIPTION
     tmutil provides methods of controlling and interacting with Time Machine,
     as well as examining and manipulating Time Machine backups. Common
     abilities include restoring data from backups, editing exclusions, and
     comparing backups.

     Several, but not all, verbs require root and Full Disk Access privileges.
     Full Disk Access privileges can be granted to the Terminal application used
     to run tmutil from the Privacy tab in the Security & Privacy preference
     pane.

BACKUP STRUCTURE
     Throughout this manual, specific language is used to describe particular
     "realms" associated with Time Machine backups. It is important to
     understand this terminology to make effective use of tmutil and its manual.

     backup source
             A volume currently being backed up by Time Machine.

     backup disk
             The HFS+ or APFS volume that contains Time Machine backups.

     backup destination
             In the case of a local destination, a synonym for backup disk. For
             network destinations, this is the AFP or SMB share on which the
             backup disk image resides.

     backup disk image (or backup image)
             A sparsebundle that, when mounted, is the backing store for a
             volume that is a backup disk.

     backup store
             The top-level "Backups.backupdb" directory at the root of an HFS+
             backup disk. E.g.,

             /Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb

             n.b. APFS backup disks do not have backup stores.

     machine directory
             On HFS+, a directory inside a backup store that contains all the
             backups for a particular computer. On APFS, the root of the backup
             disk is a machine directory. For local HFS+ destinations, a backup
             store can contain multiple machine directories, all for separate
             computers. E.g.,

             /Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb/thermopylae

     backup
             A directory inside a machine directory or APFS backup volume
             snapshot that represents a single initial or incremental backup of
             one computer. E.g.,

             /Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb/thermopylae/2011-07-03-123456

             com.apple.TimeMachine.2011-07-03-123456.backup

     local snapshot (or snapshot)
             An APFS snapshot of an APFS source volume included in the backup.
             E.g.,

             com.apple.TimeMachine.2011-07-03-123456.local

     volume store
             A directory inside a backup that represents a single initial or
             incremental backup of one backup source. E.g.,

             /Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb/thermopylae/2011-07-03-123456/Mac
             HD

             /Volumes/.timemachine/*/2011-07-03-123456.backup/2011-07-03-123456.backup/Mac
             HD

VERBS
     Each verb is listed with its description and individual arguments.

     setdestination [-ap] arg
             Configure a local HFS+ or APFS volume, AFP share, or SMB share as a
             backup destination. Requires root and Full Disk Access privileges.

             When the -a option is provided, arg will be added to the list of
             destinations. Time Machine will automatically choose a backup
             destination from the list when performing backups. When the -a
             option is not provided, the current list of destinations will be
             replaced by arg.

             If you wish to set an HFS+ or APFS volume as the backup
             destination, arg should be the mount point of the volume in
             question. When setting an AFP or SMB destination arg takes the
             form:

             protocol://user[:pass]@host/share

             In the AFP and SMB cases, the password component of the URL is
             optional; you may instead specify the -p option to enter the
             password at a non-echoing interactive prompt. This is of particular
             interest to the security-conscious, as all arguments provided to a
             program are visible by all users on the system via the ps tool.

     destinationinfo [-X]
             Print information about destinations currently configured for use
             with Time Machine. For each backup destination, the following
             information may be displayed:

                 Name          The volume label as shown in Finder.
                 Kind          Whether the destination is locally attached
                               storage or a network device.
                 URL           In the case of a network destination, the URL
                               used for Time Machine configuration.
                 Mount Point   If the volume is currently mounted, the path in
                               the file system at which it was mounted.
                 ID            The unique identifier for the destination.

             When more than one destination is configured, the most recent
             backup destination will be marked with the > indicator.

             When the -X option is provided, output will be printed in XML
             property list format.

     removedestination identifier
             Remove the destination with the specified unique identifier from
             the Time Machine configuration. Requires root and Full Disk Access
             privileges.

             To obtain the unique identifier for a destination, see
             destinationinfo.

     addexclusion [-pv] item ...
             Configure an exclusion that tells Time Machine not to back up a
             file, directory, or volume during future backups.

             There are three kinds of user-configurable exclusions in Time
             Machine:

             The first kind of exclusion, which is the default behavior for the
             addexclusion verb, is a location-independent ("sticky") exclusion
             that follows a file or directory. When the file or directory is
             moved, the exclusion goes with the item to the new location.
             Additionally, when the item is copied, the copy retains the
             exclusion.

             The second kind of exclusion is a fixed-path exclusion. With this,
             you tell Time Machine that you want a specific path to be excluded,
             agnostic of the item at that path. If there is no file or directory
             at the specified path, the exclusion has no effect; if the item
             previously at the path has been moved or renamed, the item is not
             excluded, because it does not currently reside at the excluded
             path. As a consequence of these semantics, moving a file or
             directory to the path will cause the item to be excluded--fixed-
             path exclusions are not automatically cleaned up when items are
             moved or deleted and will take effect again once an item exists at
             an excluded path.

             The third kind of exclusion is a volume exclusion. These track
             volumes based on file system UUID, which is persistent across
             volume name and mount path changes. Erasing the volume will cause
             Time Machine to apply default behavior for the newly erased volume.

             The -p option configures fixed-path exclusions. The -v option
             configures volume exclusions. Both require root and Full Disk
             Access privileges. The -v option is the only supported way to
             exclude or unexclude a volume; behavior is undefined if a sticky or
             fixed-path exclusion is specified.

     removeexclusion [-pv] item ...
             Configure Time Machine to back up a file, directory, or volume
             during future backups. This verb follows the same usage, exclusion
             style, and privilege semantics as addexclusion.

     isexcluded [-X] item ...
             Determine if a file, directory, or volume are excluded from Time
             Machine backups.

             When the -X option is provided, output will be printed in XML
             property list format.

             # example output for an excluded item
             thermopylae:~ thoth$ tmutil isexcluded /Users/admin/Desktop/foo.txt
             [Excluded]      /Users/admin/Desktop/foo.txt

             # example output for an item that is not excluded
             thermopylae:~ thoth$ tmutil isexcluded /Users/admin/Desktop/bar.txt
             [Included]      /Users/admin/Desktop/bar.txt

     enable
             Turn on automatic backups. Requires root and Full Disk Access
             privileges.

     disable
             Turn off automatic backups. Requires root and Full Disk Access
             privileges.

     startbackup [-a | --auto] [-b | --block] [-r | --rotation] [-d |
             --destination dest_id]
             Begin a backup if one is not already running.

             Options:
                 --auto           Run the backup in a mode similar to system-
                                  scheduled backups.
                 --block          Wait (block) until the backup is finished
                                  before exiting.
                 --rotation       Allow automatic destination rotation during
                                  the backup.
                 --destination    Perform the backup to the destination
                                  corresponding to the specified ID.

             The --auto option provides a supported mechanism with which to
             trigger "automatic-like" backups, similar to automatic backups that
             are scheduled by the system. While this is not identical to true
             system-scheduled backups, it provides custom schedulers the ability
             to achieve some (but not all) behavior normally exhibited when
             operating in automatic mode.

     stopbackup
             Cancel a backup currently in progress.

     compare [-@acdefglmnstuEUX] [-D depth] [-I name] [backup_path | path1
             path2]
             Perform a backup diff.

             If no arguments are provided, tmutil will compare the computer to
             the latest backup. If a backup path is provided as the sole
             argument, tmutil will compare the computer to the specified backup.
             If two path arguments are provided, tmutil will compare those two
             items to each other.  tmutil will attempt to inform you when you
             have asked it to do something that doesn't make sense or isn't
             supported.

             The compare verb allows you to specify what properties to compare.
             If you specify no property options, tmutil assumes a default
             property set of -@gmstu. Specifying any property option overrides
             the default set.

             Options:
                 -a    Compare all supported metadata.
                 -n    No metadata comparison.
                 -@    Compare extended attributes.
                 -c    Compare creation times.
                 -d    Compare file data forks.
                 -e    Compare ACLs.
                 -f    Compare file flags.
                 -g    Compare GIDs.
                 -m    Compare file modes.
                 -s    Compare sizes.
                 -t    Compare modification times.
                 -u    Compare UIDs.
                 -D    Limit traversal depth to depth levels from the beginning
                       of iteration.
                 -E    Don't take exclusions into account when comparing items
                       inside volumes.
                 -I    Ignore paths with a path component equal to name during
                       iteration. This may be specified multiple times.
                 -U    Ignore logical volume identity (volume UUIDs) when
                       directly comparing a local volume or volume store to a
                       volume store.
                 -X    Print output in XML property list format.

     verifychecksums path ...
             Compute a checksum of data contained within a backup and verify the
             result(s) against checksum information computed at the time of
             backup.

             No output is generated for matching checksums. Issues are reported
             using the following legend:

                 !    The file's current checksum does not match the expected
                      recorded checksum.
                 ?    The file's recorded checksum is invalid.

             Beginning in OS X 10.11, Time Machine records checksums of files
             copied into backups. Checksums are not retroactively computed for
             files that were copied by earlier releases of OS X.

     restore [-v] src ... dst
             Restore the item src, which is inside a backup, to the location
             dst. The dst argument mimics the destination path semantics of the
             cp tool. You may provide multiple source paths to restore. The last
             path argument must be a destination.

             When using the restore verb, tmutil behaves largely like Finder.
             Custom Time Machine metadata (extended security and other) will be
             removed from the restored data, and other metadata will be
             preserved.

             Root and Full Disk Access privileges may be required to perform
             restores. When restoring with tmutil as root, ownership of the
             restored items will match the state of the items in the backup.

     delete [-d backup_mount_point -t timestamp] [-p path]
             Deletes the backups with the specified timestamp from the backup
             volume mounted at the specified mountpoint. The -t option followed
             by a timestamp can be used multiple times to specify multiple
             backups to delete. For HFS backup disks, a specific path to delete
             can also be specified using the -p option. This verb can delete
             items from backups that were not made by, or are not claimed by,
             the current machine. Requires root and Full Disk Access privileges.

     deleteinprogress machine_directory
             Delete all in-progress backups for a machine directory. Requires
             root and Full Disk Access privileges.  On APFS backup destinations,
             this reverts the destination volume to the last backup.

     latestbackup [-d backup_mount_point [-m [-t]]]
             List this computer's latest completed backup. The -d option
             specifies a destination volume to list backups from. When -m is
             provided, latestbackup will attempt to mount the backups and list
             their mounted paths.  The -t option will show only the backup
             timestamp rather than the full name or path.
             Requires root and Full Disk Access privileges.

     listbackups [-d backup_mount_point [-m [-t]]]
             List all of this computer's completed backups. The -d option
             specifies a destination volume to list backups from. When -m is
             provided, listbackups will attempt to mount backups and list their
             mounted paths.  The -t option will show only the backup timestamp
             rather than the full name or path.
             Requires root and Full Disk Access privileges.

     machinedirectory
             Print the path to the current machine directory for this computer.

     calculatedrift machine_directory
             Analyze the backups in an HFS machine directory and determine the
             amount of change between each. Averages are printed after all
             backups have been analyzed. This may require root and Full Disk
             Access privileges, depending on the contents of the machine
             directory.

     uniquesize path ...
             Analyze the specified path in an HFS+ backup or path to an APFS
             backup and determine its unique size. The figure reported by
             uniquesize represents things that only exist in the specified path;
             things that are present in other backups are not tallied.

     inheritbackup {machine_directory | sparsebundle}
             Claim a machine directory or sparsebundle for use by the current
             machine. Requires root and Full Disk Access privileges.

             Machine directories and sparsebundles are owned by one computer at
             a time, and are tracked by unique identifiers rather than computer
             name, host name, or ethernet address. The inheritbackup verb
             reassigns the identity of the specified item, reconfiguring it so
             the current host recognizes it during backups. When inheriting a
             sparsebundle, the machine directory within will also be claimed.

             Inheriting is typically only one step in the process of configuring
             a backup for use by a machine. You may also need to use
             setdestination, associatedisk, or both, depending on the situation.

             One machine can own multiple machine directories and sparsebundles,
             but it is ill-advised for them to reside in the same place. In such
             a situation, which will be chosen during a backup is undefined. As
             a result, inheritbackup will attempt to detect possible identity
             collisions before making changes.

     associatedisk mount_point snapshot_volume
             Bind a volume store directory to the specified local disk, thereby
             reconfiguring the backup history. Requires root and Full Disk
             Access privileges.

             In Mac OS X, HFS+ and APFS volumes have a persistent UUID that is
             assigned when the file system is created. Time Machine uses this
             identifier to make an association between a source volume and a
             volume store. Erasing the source volume creates a new file system
             on the disk, and the previous UUID is not retained. The new UUID
             causes the source volume -> volume store association to be broken.
             If one were just erasing the volume and starting over, it would
             likely be of no real consequence, and the new UUID would not be a
             concern; when erasing a volume in order to clone another volume to
             it, recreating the association may be desired.

             A concrete example of when and how you would use associatedisk:

             After having problems with a volume, you decide to erase it and
             manually restore its contents from a Time Machine backup or copy of
             another nature. (I.e., not via Time Machine System Restore or
             Migration Assistant.) On your next incremental backup, the data
             will be copied anew, as though none of it had been backed up
             before. Technically, it is true that the data has not been backed
             up, given the new UUID. However, this is probably not what you want
             Time Machine to do. You would then use associatedisk to reconfigure
             the backup so it appears that this volume has been backed up
             previously:

             thermopylae:~ thoth$ sudo tmutil associatedisk [-a]
             "/Volumes/MyNewStuffDisk"
             "/Volumes/Chronoton/Backups.backupdb/thermopylae/Latest/MyStuff"

             The result of the above command would associate the volume store
             MyStuff in the specified backup with the source volume
             MyNewStuffDisk. The volume store would also be renamed to match.
             The -a option tells associatedisk to find all volume stores in the
             same machine directory that match the identity of MyStuff, and then
             perform the association on all of them.

     localsnapshot
             Create new local Time Machine snapshots of all APFS volumes
             included in the Time Machine backup.

     listlocalsnapshots mount_point
             List local Time Machine snapshots of the specified volume.

     listlocalsnapshotdates [mount_point]
             List the creation dates of all local Time Machine snapshots.

             Specify mount_point to list snapshot creation dates from a specific
             volume.

             Listed dates are formatted YYYY-MM-DD-HHMMSS.

     deletelocalsnapshots {mount_point | date}
             If a date is specified, delete all local Time Machine snapshots on
             all mounted disks for the specified date (formatted YYYY-MM-DD-
             HHMMSS).  If a disk is specified, delete all local Time Machine
             snapshots on the specified disk

     thinlocalsnapshots mount_point [purge_amount] [urgency]
             Thin local Time Machine snapshots for the specified volume.

             When purge_amount and urgency are specified, tmutil will attempt
             (with urgency level 1-4) to reclaim purge_amount in bytes by
             thinning snapshots.

             If urgency is not specified, the default urgency will be used.

EXIT STATUS
     In most situations, tmutil exits 0 on success, >0 otherwise.

