tokenadmin(8)                System Manager's Manual               tokenadmin(8)

NAME
     tokenadmin – Command-line interface to smartcards and other token-based
     keychains

SYNOPSIS
     tokenadmin [-hqv] command [command_options] [command_args]

DESCRIPTION
     A command-line tool to administer smartcards and other token-based
     keychains.

OPTIONS
     -h       With no arguments, shows a list of all commands.  If arguments are
              provided, shows usage for each of the specified commands.  Same as
              the help command.

     -q       Makes tokenadmin less verbose.

     -v       Makes tokenadmin more verbose.

COMMANDS
     Note: all commands other than help take the -h option to display help.

     help            Shows all commands.

     create-fv-user  -u short-name -l long-name [-p password]

                     Creates a new FileVaulted user protected by the inserted
                     smart card or token.

                     Options:
                     -u short-name
                              Specify the short (i.e., login) name to be used
                              for the account.
                     -l long-name
                              Specify the full name to be used for the account.
                              If the full name contains spaces, the name must be
                              enclosed by quotation marks.
                     -p password
                              Password for the user's login keychain (optional).

EXAMPLE
     tokenadmin create-fv-user -u fvtest3 -p foo -l "FV Test User 3"

     Create a new FileVaulted user with short name "fvtest3" and full name "FV
     Test User 3", with the new FileVault image being protected by the inserted
     token. The password for the user's login keychain is "foo".  Note: after
     creating this user with tokenadmin, you must run "sc_auth accept -u
     fvtest3" or this user will not be able to log in.

SEE ALSO
     security(1), sc_auth(8), systemkeychain(8)

NOTES
     tokenadmin will eventually be merged into the security(1) command.

