TRACEROUTE6(8)               System Manager's Manual              TRACEROUTE6(8)

NAME
     traceroute6 – print the route IPv6 packets will take to a network node

SYNOPSIS
     traceroute6 [-dIlnNrvU] [-f firsthop] [-g gateway] [-m hoplimit] [-p port]
                 [-q probes] [-s src] [-w waittime] target [datalen]

DESCRIPTION
     The traceroute6 utility uses the IPv6 protocol hop limit field to elicit an
     ICMPv6 TIME_EXCEEDED response from each gateway along the path to some
     host.

     The only mandatory parameter is the destination host name or IPv6 address.
     The default probe datagram carries 12 bytes of payload, in addition to the
     IPv6 header.  The size of the payload can be specified by giving a length
     (in bytes) after the destination host name.

     Other options are:

     -d      Debug mode.

     -f firsthop
             Specify how many hops to skip in trace.

     -g gateway
             Specify intermediate gateway ( traceroute6 uses routing header).

     -I      Use ICMP6 ECHO instead of UDP datagrams.

     -l      Print both host hostnames and numeric addresses.  Normally
             traceroute6 prints only hostnames if -n is not specified, and only
             numeric addresses if -n is specified.

     -m hoplimit
             Specify maximum hoplimit, up to 255.  The default is 30 hops.

     -n      Do not resolve numeric address to hostname.

     -N      Use a packet with no upper layer header for the probes, instead of
             UDP datagrams.

     -p port
             Set UDP port number to port.

     -q probes
             Set the number of probe per hop count to probes.

     -r      Bypass the normal routing tables and send directly to a host on an
             attached network.  If the host is not on a directly-connected
             network, an error is returned.  This option corresponds to the
             SO_DONTROUTE socket option; it can be used to ping a local host
             through an interface that has no route through it (e.g., after the
             interface was dropped by a routing daemon).

     -s src  Src specifies the source IPv6 address to be used.

     -U      Use UDP datagrams for the probes.  This is the default.

     -v      Be verbose.

     -w waittime
             Specify the delay time between probes.

     This program prints the route to the given destination and the round-trip
     time to each gateway, in the same manner as traceroute.

     Here is a list of possible annotations after the round-trip time for each
     gateway:

           !N      Destination Unreachable - No Route to Host.

           !P      Destination Unreachable - Administratively Prohibited.

           !S      Destination Unreachable - Not a Neighbour.

           !A      Destination Unreachable - Address Unreachable.

           !       This is printed if the hop limit is <= 1 on a port
                   unreachable message.  This means that the packet got to the
                   destination, but that the reply had a hop limit that was just
                   large enough to allow it to get back to the source of the
                   traceroute6.  This was more interesting in the IPv4 case,
                   where some IP stack bugs could be identified by this
                   behaviour.

RETURN VALUES
     The traceroute6 utility will exit with 0 on success, and non-zero on
     errors.

SEE ALSO
     ping(8), ping6(8), traceroute(8)

HISTORY
     The traceroute6 utility first appeared in WIDE hydrangea IPv6 protocol
     stack kit.

