UMOUNT(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   UMOUNT(8)

NAME
     umount – unmount filesystems

SYNOPSIS
     umount [-fv] special | node
     umount -a | -A [-fv] [-h host] [-t type]

DESCRIPTION
     The umount command unmounts a mounted filesystem (volume), removing it from
     the filesystem namespace.  It calls the unmount(2) system call to remove a
     special device or the remote node (rhost:path) from the filesystem tree at
     the point node.  If either special or node are not provided, the
     appropriate information is taken from the list of filesystems provided by
     getfsent(3).

     The options are as follows:

     -a      All the filesystems described via getfsent(3) are unmounted.

     -A      All the currently mounted filesystems except the root are
             unmounted.

     -f      The filesystem is forcibly unmounted.  Active special devices
             continue to work, but all other files return errors if further
             accesses are attempted.  The root filesystem cannot be forcibly
             unmounted.

     -h host
             Only filesystems mounted from the specified host will be unmounted.
             This option implies the -A option and, unless otherwise specified
             with the -t option, will only unmount NFS filesystems.

     -t type
             Is used to indicate the actions should only be taken on filesystems
             of the specified type.  More than one type may be specified in a
             comma separated list.  The list of filesystem types can be prefixed
             with “no” to specify the filesystem types for which action should
             not be taken.  For example, the umount command:

                   umount -A -t nfs,hfs

             umounts all currently-mounted filesystems of the type NFS and HFS.
             (The -a option only unmounts entries in the /etc/fstab list.)

     -v      Verbose, additional information is printed out as each filesystem
             is unmounted.

NOTES
     Due to the complex and interwoven nature of Mac OS X, umount may fail
     often.  It is recommended that diskutil(1) (as in, ``diskutil unmount
     /mnt'') be used instead.

SEE ALSO
     unmount(2), getfsent(3), mount(8), diskutil(1)

HISTORY
     A umount command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

