uucico(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   uucico(8)



NAME
       uucico - UUCP file transfer daemon

SYNOPSIS
       uucico [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       The uucico daemon processes file transfer requests queued by uucp (1) and
       uux (1).  It is started when uucp or uux is run (unless they are given
       the -r option).  It is also typically started periodically using entries
       in the crontab table(s).

       When invoked with -r1, --master, -s, --system, or -S, the daemon will
       place a call to a remote system, running in master mode.  Otherwise the
       daemon will start in slave mode, accepting a call from a remote system.
       Typically a special login name will be set up for UUCP which
       automatically invokes uucico when a call is made.

       When uucico terminates, it invokes the uuxqt (8) daemon, unless the -q or
       --nouuxqt option is given; uuxqt (8) executes any work orders created by
       uux (1) on a remote system, and any work orders created locally which
       have received remote files for which they were waiting.

       If a call fails, uucico will normally refuse to retry the call until a
       certain (configurable) amount of time has passed.  This may be overriden
       by the -f, --force, or -S option.

       The -l, --prompt, -e, or --loop options may be used to force uucico to
       produce its own prompts of "login: " and "Password:".  When another
       daemon calls in, it will see these prompts and log in as usual.  The
       login name and password will normally be checked against a separate list
       kept specially for uucico rather than the /etc/passwd file; it is
       possible on some systems to direct uucico to use the /etc/passwd file.
       The -l or --prompt option will prompt once and then exit; in this mode
       the UUCP administrator or the superuser may use the -u or --login option
       to force a login name, in which case uucico will not prompt for one.  The
       -e or --loop option will prompt again after the first session is over; in
       this mode uucico will permanently control a port.

       If uucico receives a SIGQUIT, SIGTERM or SIGPIPE signal, it will cleanly
       abort any current conversation with a remote system and exit.  If it
       receives a SIGHUP signal it will abort any current conversation, but will
       continue to place calls to (if invoked with -r1 or --master) and accept
       calls from (if invoked with -e or --loop) other systems.  If it receives
       a SIGINT signal it will finish the current conversation, but will not
       place or accept any more calls.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be given to uucico.

       -r1, --master
            Start in master mode (call out to a system); implied by -s,
            --system, or -S.  If no system is specified, call any system for
            which work is waiting to be done.

       -r0, --slave
            Start in slave mode.  This is the default.

       -s system, --system system
            Call the named system.

       -S system
            Call the named system, ignoring any required wait.  This is
            equivalent to -s system -f.

       -f, --force
            Ignore any required wait for any systems to be called.

       -l, --prompt
            Prompt for login name and password using "login: " and "Password:".
            This allows uucico to be easily run from inetd (8).  The login name
            and password are checked against the UUCP password file, which
            probably has no connection to the file /etc/passwd.  The --login
            option may be used to force a login name, in which cause uucico will
            only prompt for a password.

       -p port, --port port
            Specify a port to call out on or to listen to.

       -e, --loop
            Enter endless loop of login/password prompts and slave mode daemon
            execution.  The program will not stop by itself; you must use kill
            (1) to shut it down.

       -w, --wait
            After calling out (to a particular system when -s, --system, or -S
            is specifed, or to all systems which have work when just -r1 or
            --master is specifed), begin an endless loop as with --loop.

       -q, --nouuxqt
            Do not start the uuxqt (8) daemon when finished.

       -c, --quiet
            If no calls are permitted at this time, then don't make the call,
            but also do not put an error message in the log file and do not
            update the system status (as reported by uustat (1)).  This can be
            convenient for automated polling scripts, which may want to simply
            attempt to call every system rather than worry about which
            particular systems may be called at the moment.  This option also
            suppresses the log message indicating that there is no work to be
            done.

       -C, --ifwork
            Only call the system named by -s, --system or -S if there is work
            for that system.

       -D, --nodetach
            Do not detach from the controlling terminal.  Normally uucico
            detaches from the terminal before each call out to another system
            and before invoking uuxqt.  This option prevents this.

       -u name, --login name
            Set the login name to use instead of that of the invoking user.
            This option may only be used by the UUCP administrator or the
            superuser.  If used with --prompt, this will cause uucico to prompt
            only for the password, not the login name.

       -z, --try-next
            If a call fails after the remote system is reached, try the next
            alternate rather than simply exiting.

       -i type, --stdin type
            Set the type of port to use when using standard input.  The only
            support port type is TLI, and this is only available on machines
            which support the TLI networking interface.  Specifying -iTLI causes
            uucico to use TLI calls to perform I/O.

       -x type, -X type, --debug type
            Turn on particular debugging types.  The following types are
            recognized: abnormal, chat, handshake, uucp-proto, proto, port,
            config, spooldir, execute, incoming, outgoing.

            Multiple types may be given, separated by commas, and the --debug
            option may appear multiple times.  A number may also be given, which
            will turn on that many types from the foregoing list; for example,
            --debug 2 is equivalent to --debug abnormal,chat.

            The debugging output is sent to the debugging file, which may be
            printed using uulog -D.

       -I file, --config file
            Set configuration file to use.  This option may not be available,
            depending upon how uucico was compiled.

       -v, --version
            Report version information and exit.

       --help
            Print a help message and exit.

SEE ALSO
       kill(1), uucp(1), uux(1), uustat(1), uuxqt(8)

AUTHOR
       Ian Lance Taylor <ian@airs.com>



