uuxqt(8)                     System Manager's Manual                    uuxqt(8)



NAME
       uuxqt - UUCP execution daemon

SYNOPSIS
       uuxqt [ options ]

DESCRIPTION
       The uuxqt daemon executes commands requested by uux (1) from either the
       local system or from remote systems.  It is started automatically by the
       uucico (8) daemon (unless uucico (8) is given the -q or --nouuxqt
       option).

       There is normally no need to run this command, since it will be invoked
       by uucico (8).  However, it can be used to provide greater control over
       the processing of the work queue.

       Multiple invocations of uuxqt may be run at once, as controlled by the
       max-uuxqts configuration command.

OPTIONS
       The following options may be given to uuxqt.

       -c command, --command command
            Only execute requests for the specified command.  For example:
                 uuxqt --command rmail

       -s system, --system system
            Only execute requests originating from the specified system.

       -x type, --debug type
            Turn on particular debugging types.  The following types are
            recognized: abnormal, chat, handshake, uucp-proto, proto, port,
            config, spooldir, execute, incoming, outgoing.  Only abnormal,
            config, spooldir and execute are meaningful for uuxqt.

            Multiple types may be given, separated by commas, and the --debug
            option may appear multiple times.  A number may also be given, which
            will turn on that many types from the foregoing list; for example,
            --debug 2 is equivalent to --debug abnormal,chat.

            The debugging output is sent to the debugging file, which may be
            printed using uulog -D.

       -I file, --config
            Set configuration file to use.  This option may not be available,
            depending upon how uuxqt was compiled.

       -v, --version
            Report version information and exit.

       --help
            Print a help message and exit.

SEE ALSO
       uucp(1), uux(1), uucico(8)

AUTHOR
       Ian Lance Taylor (ian@airs.com)



