VIPW(8)                      System Manager's Manual                     VIPW(8)

NAME
     vipw – edit the password file

SYNOPSIS
     vipw [-d directory]

DESCRIPTION
     The vipw utility edits the password file after setting the appropriate
     locks, and does any necessary processing after the password file is
     unlocked.  If the password file is already locked for editing by another
     user, vipw will ask you to try again later.  The default editor for vipw is
     vi(1).

     When run without options, vipw will work with the password files in /etc.
     The -d option may be used to specify an alternative directory to work with.

     The vipw utility performs a number of consistency checks on the password
     entries, and will not allow a password file with a “mangled” entry to be
     installed.  If vipw rejects the new password file, the user is prompted to
     re-enter the edit session.

     Once the information has been verified, vipw uses pwd_mkdb(8) to update the
     user database.  This is run in the background, and, at very large sites
     could take several minutes.  Until this update is completed, the password
     file is unavailable for other updates and the new information is not
     available to programs.

ENVIRONMENT
     If the following environment variable exists it will be utilized by vipw:

     EDITOR           The editor specified by the string EDITOR will be invoked
                      instead of the default editor vi(1).  This can be used to
                      allow a script to non-interactively modify the password
                      file.

     PW_SCAN_BIG_IDS  See pwd_mkdb(8).

SEE ALSO
     chpass(1), passwd(1), passwd(5), pwd_mkdb(8)

HISTORY
     The vipw utility appeared in 4.0BSD.

BUGS
     The mechanism for checking for password file modifications requires that
     the modification time of the password file changes.  This means that in a
     default configuration where file system timestamps are not calculated with
     sub-second precision, EDITOR has to run for at least one second.  Non-
     interactive editor scripts should invoke sleep(1) or equivalent to ensure
     this happens.

