VISUDO(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   VISUDO(8)



NAME
       visudo - edit the sudoers file

SYNOPSIS
       visudo [-chqsV] [[-f] sudoers]

DESCRIPTION
       visudo edits the sudoers file in a safe fashion, analogous to vipw(8).
       visudo locks the sudoers file against multiple simultaneous edits,
       performs basic validity checks, and checks for syntax errors before
       installing the edited file.  If the sudoers file is currently being
       edited you will receive a message to try again later.

       visudo parses the sudoers file after editing and will not save the
       changes if there is a syntax error.  Upon finding an error, visudo will
       print a message stating the line number(s) where the error occurred and
       the user will receive the “What now?” prompt.  At this point the user may
       enter ‘e’ to re-edit the sudoers file, ‘x’ to exit without saving the
       changes, or ‘Q’ to quit and save changes.  The ‘Q’ option should be used
       with extreme caution because if visudo believes there to be a syntax
       error, so will sudo and no one will be able to run sudo again until the
       error is fixed.  If ‘e’ is typed to edit the sudoers file after a syntax
       error has been detected, the cursor will be placed on the line where the
       error occurred (if the editor supports this feature).

       There are two sudoers settings that determine which editor visudo will
       run.

       editor    A colon (‘:’) separated list of editors allowed to be used with
                 visudo.  visudo will choose the editor that matches the user's
                 SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL or EDITOR environment variable if possible,
                 or the first editor in the list that exists and is executable.
                 Note that sudo does not preserve the SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL or
                 EDITOR environment variables unless they are present in the
                 env_keep list or the env_reset option is disabled in the
                 sudoers file.  The default editor path is vi which can be set
                 at compile time via the --with-editor configure option.

       env_editor
                 If set, visudo will use the value of the SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL or
                 EDITOR environment variables before falling back on the default
                 editor list.  Note that visudo is typically run as root so this
                 option may allow a user with visudo privileges to run arbitrary
                 commands as root without logging.  An alternative is to place a
                 colon-separated list of “safe” editors int the editor variable.
                 visudo will then only use SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL or EDITOR if they
                 match a value specified in editor.  If the env_reset flag is
                 enabled, the SUDO_EDITOR, VISUAL and/or EDITOR environment
                 variables must be present in the env_keep list for the
                 env_editor flag to function when visudo is invoked via sudo.
                 The default value is on, which can be set at compile time via
                 the --with-env-editor configure option.

       The options are as follows:

       -c, --check Enable check-only mode.  The existing sudoers file (and any
                   other files it includes) will be checked for syntax errors.
                   If the path to the sudoers file was not specified, visudo
                   will also check the file owner and mode.  A message will be
                   printed to the standard output describing the status of
                   sudoers unless the -q option was specified.  If the check
                   completes successfully, visudo will exit with a value of 0.
                   If an error is encountered, visudo will exit with a value of
                   1.

       -f sudoers, --file=sudoers
                   Specify an alternate sudoers file location, see below.  As of
                   version 1.8.27, the sudoers path can be specified without
                   using the -f option.

       -h, --help  Display a short help message to the standard output and exit.

       -q, --quiet Enable quiet mode.  In this mode details about syntax errors
                   are not printed.  This option is only useful when combined
                   with the -c option.

       -s, --strict
                   Enable strict checking of the sudoers file.  If an alias is
                   referenced but not actually defined or if there is a cycle in
                   an alias, visudo will consider this a syntax error.  Note
                   that it is not possible to differentiate between an alias and
                   a host name or user name that consists solely of uppercase
                   letters, digits, and the underscore (‘_’) character.

       -V, --version
                   Print the visudo and sudoers grammar versions and exit.

       A sudoers file may be specified instead of the default,
       /private/etc/sudoers.  The temporary file used is the specified sudoers
       file with “.tmp” appended to it.  In check-only mode only, ‘-’ may be
       used to indicate that sudoers will be read from the standard input.
       Because the policy is evaluated in its entirety, it is not sufficient to
       check an individual sudoers include file for syntax errors.

   Debugging and sudoers plugin arguments
       visudo versions 1.8.4 and higher support a flexible debugging framework
       that is configured via Debug lines in the sudo.conf(5) file.

       Starting with sudo 1.8.12, visudo will also parse the arguments to the
       sudoers plugin to override the default sudoers path name, UID, GID and
       file mode.  These arguments, if present, should be listed after the path
       to the plugin (i.e., after sudoers.so).  Multiple arguments may be
       specified, separated by white space.  For example:

             Plugin sudoers_policy sudoers.so sudoers_mode=0400

       The following arguments are supported:

       sudoers_file=pathname
                 The sudoers_file argument can be used to override the default
                 path to the sudoers file.

       sudoers_uid=uid
                 The sudoers_uid argument can be used to override the default
                 owner of the sudoers file.  It should be specified as a numeric
                 user-ID.

       sudoers_gid=gid
                 The sudoers_gid argument can be used to override the default
                 group of the sudoers file.  It must be specified as a numeric
                 group-ID (not a group name).

       sudoers_mode=mode
                 The sudoers_mode argument can be used to override the default
                 file mode for the sudoers file.  It should be specified as an
                 octal value.

       For more information on configuring sudo.conf(5), please refer to its
       manual.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables may be consulted depending on the
       value of the editor and env_editor sudoers settings:

       SUDO_EDITOR      Invoked by visudo as the editor to use

       VISUAL           Used by visudo if SUDO_EDITOR is not set

       EDITOR           Used by visudo if neither SUDO_EDITOR nor VISUAL is set

FILES
       /private/etc/sudo.conf    Sudo front end configuration

       /private/etc/sudoers      List of who can run what

       /private/etc/sudoers.tmp  Default temporary file used by visudo

DIAGNOSTICS
       In addition to reporting sudoers syntax errors, visudo may produce the
       following messages:

       sudoers file busy, try again later.
             Someone else is currently editing the sudoers file.

       /private/etc/sudoers: Permission denied
             You didn't run visudo as root.

       you do not exist in the passwd database
             Your user-ID does not appear in the system passwd database.

       Warning: {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias referenced but not defined
             Either you are trying to use an undeclared
             {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias or you have a user or host name listed
             that consists solely of uppercase letters, digits, and the
             underscore (‘_’) character.  In the latter case, you can ignore the
             warnings (sudo will not complain) .  The message is prefixed with
             the path name of the sudoers file and the line number where the
             undefined alias was used.  In -s (strict) mode these are errors,
             not warnings.

       Warning: unused {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias
             The specified {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias was defined but never
             used.  The message is prefixed with the path name of the sudoers
             file and the line number where the unused alias was defined.  You
             may wish to comment out or remove the unused alias.

       Warning: cycle in {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias
             The specified {User,Runas,Host,Cmnd}_Alias includes a reference to
             itself, either directly or through an alias it includes.  The
             message is prefixed with the path name of the sudoers file and the
             line number where the cycle was detected.  This is only a warning
             unless visudo is run in -s (strict) mode as sudo will ignore cycles
             when parsing the sudoers file.

       unknown defaults entry "name"
             The sudoers file contains a Defaults setting not recognized by
             visudo.

SEE ALSO
       vi(1), sudo.conf(5), sudoers(5), sudo(8), vipw(8)

AUTHORS
       Many people have worked on sudo over the years; this version consists of
       code written primarily by:

             Todd C. Miller

       See the CONTRIBUTORS file in the sudo distribution
       (https://www.sudo.ws/contributors.html) for an exhaustive list of people
       who have contributed to sudo.

CAVEATS
       There is no easy way to prevent a user from gaining a root shell if the
       editor used by visudo allows shell escapes.

BUGS
       If you feel you have found a bug in visudo, please submit a bug report at
       https://bugzilla.sudo.ws/

SUPPORT
       Limited free support is available via the sudo-users mailing list, see
       https://www.sudo.ws/mailman/listinfo/sudo-users to subscribe or search
       the archives.

DISCLAIMER
       visudo is provided “AS IS” and any express or implied warranties,
       including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability
       and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed.  See the LICENSE
       file distributed with sudo or https://www.sudo.ws/license.html for
       complete details.



