wfsctl(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   wfsctl(8)

NAME
     wfsctl – WebDAV File Sharing control utility

SYNOPSYS
     wfsctl command [arg]

OVERVIEW
     The wfsctl utility allows administrators to start, stop, and check the
     status of the WebDAV File Sharing service (WFS). It also allows
     administrators to create and delete WebDAV share points. It operates by
     configuring the Apache httpd server.  The wfsctl command requires root
     privileges.

COMMANDS
     wfsctl provides the following commands:

     start                  Enable the WFS configuration, and either start or
                            restart the Apache web server to pick it up. If
                            necessary, this action will create an SSL Identity
                            matching the machine's host name as determined by
                            the hostname(1) command, and place it in the System
                            keychain. It will also update, if necessary,
                            environment variable definitions for use by
                            parameterized httpd config files. (Note that
                            starting the Apache web server is the equivalent of
                            "apachectl start" which loads a launch job for the
                            httpd process.)

     stop                   Disable the WFS configuration, and restart Apache if
                            it's already running.

     status                 Display the status of WFS, either "enabled" or
                            "disabled", whether or not Apache is running.

     shares                 Display existing WebDAV share points.

     share path             Create a WebDAV share point for the specified file
                            system path.

     unshare path | name    Disable WebDAV for the share point at the specified
                            file system path or share point name, and delete the
                            share point if no other file sharing service (AFP or
                            SMB) was enabled on that share point.

     diagnose               Display detailed status of Apache and WebDAV-related
                            processes.

DETAILS
     WebDAV File Sharing operates by:

     1.   Recognizing WebDAV clients when they send OPTIONS or PROPFIND
          directives

     2.   Requiring such clients to provide OD credentials

     3.   Assigning those authenticated users an HTTP cookie to recognize them
          as WebDAV clients

     4.   Launching an instance of the Apache httpd process on behalf of that
          user, configured as a WebDAV server

     5.   Reverse-proxying HTTP traffic to that user-specific instance of httpd,
          so that the WebDAV client (typically an iWork app on iOS) can access
          the home directory and share points on the server machine with
          privileges of the authenticated user

     6.   Recognizing share points that are marked as WebDAV share points.

     Depending on how Apache is configured, this can coexist with other Apache
     web service functions.

NOTES
     •   WebDAV File Sharing requires SSL, and uses Basic authentication, with
         credentials that would otherwise be sent in the clear over the network.
         Also note that it uses Apache modules mod_ssl for SSL, and
         mod_authnz_od_apple for Basic authentication with OpenDirectory
         credentials.

     •   The name "webdav" is reserved (it triggers special handling of URLs),
         so share point paths named "/webdav" or containing "webdav" as a
         subpath are not allowed. And folders named "webdav" within share points
         won't be usable. There are no restrictions on case variants such as
         "WebDAV", or other variants such as "webdav.d".

     •   DropBox folders cannot be accessed via WebDAV File Sharing.

CONFIGURABLE SETTINGS
     Certain settings are kept in /etc/wfs/wfs.plist and are configurable by the
     administrator, including:

     ServerName             The host name the Apache web server should use, and
                            also the Common Name of the identity certificate. If
                            this is not configured, or set to an empty string,
                            the hostname(1) of the machine is used.

     ServerAddr             The IP address the Apache web server should use to
                            listen for HTTPS requests. Default is "*", which
                            means all addresses.

     ServerPort             The TCP port the Apache web server should use to
                            listen for HTTPS requests. Default is the standard
                            HTTPS port, 443.

     AccessGroup            The Open Directory group allowed access to the
                            WebDAV File Sharing service. The default is
                            "everyone", which gives access to any authenticated
                            user. Administrators can change this setting to
                            restrict access further. Authenticated users will
                            have, at most, the privileges they are normally
                            allowed by file system permissions. There is no
                            provision for guest access, so unauthenticated users
                            have no access.

     SynthesizeSharePointForUserHomeDir
                            Whether to allow remote WebDAV clients to see their
                            home directory as a share point. Default is True.

     The Apache config file for WebDAV File Sharing is parameterized, and the
     httpd server is managed by the httpd-wrapper utility, which passes
     parameters to httpd. This is normally transparent, but note that to check
     the Apache config file syntax, do not use "apachectl configtest" or "httpd
     -t". Instead, use "httpd-wrapper -t".

RETURN VALUES
     wfsctl returns a status code of 0 for success. In the event of failure it
     returns a non-zero status, and may also dump additional diagnostic
     information.

WEBDAV CLIENTS
     •   WebDAV clients must be properly configured to access WebDAV Shares on a
         remote host.

     •   WebDAV clients include certain iOS apps, like Numbers, Keynote, and
         Pages, and the macOS Finder's Connect-to-Server. (Note that the iOS
         Files app does not find WebDAV File Sharing locations.)

     •   WebDAV clients must usually be configured with a full URL of the host,
         with a scheme of https (since an http->https redirect is not generally
         compatible with WebDAV operations). It's not necessary to specify
         /webdav in the path. So for example, the "Server Name" might be
         specified as:

         https://hostname.example.com

     •   The configurable virtual host behavior once provided by macOS Server is
         not available, so WebDAV clients may not be able to use alternate host
         names in their URLs.

FILES
     /etc/wfs/httpd_webdavsharing.conf
             The parameterized Apache config file for the main instance of httpd

     /etc/wfs/httpd_webdavsharing_template.conf
             The parameterized Apache config file for the user-specific
             instances of httpd

     /etc/wfs/httpd_webdavsharing_sharepoints.conf
             The Apache config file providing directives specific to each share
             point; dynamically generated when share points are modified by
             wfsctl

     /etc/wfs/wfs.plist
             The file where admin-configurable settings for WFS are stored.

     /etc/apache2/env.plist
             The file where environment variable definitions are managed
             automatically; these variables are passed to httpd for use in
             parameterized config files.

     /Library/Logs/WebDAVFileSharing.log
             The main WebDAV File Sharing log file

     /etc/apache2/other/httpd_webdavsharing.conf
             A symlink seen by Apache when WebDAV File Sharing is enabled. When
             WebDAV File Sharing is disabled, this symlink is moved aside.

     /var/run/webdavsharing/<username>/
             A directory created on the behalf of each authenticated user to
             store user-specific WebDAV File Sharing logs.

     /usr/share/sandbox/wfs.sb
             The parameterized sandbox profile for user-specific httpd
             instances.

     /etc/wfs/wfs.sb
             The dynamically generated portion of the sandbox profile

SERVER APP
     When macOS Server is installed and promoted, and the Apache instance for
     Profile Manager is enabled, WebDAV File Sharing is reconfigured to support
     the WebDAV behaviors presented by Server:

     1.   macOS Server provides HTTP-based services (for Profile Manager) on
          standard HTTP/S TCP ports 80 and 443. So to avoid port conflict, the
          desktop Apache configuration (including the configuration for WebDAV
          File Sharing) is switched to port 81, on localhost only, and WFS
          traffic is reverse proxied to localhost:81.

     2.   macOS Server manages its own SSL certificates, and provides the SSL
          endpoint. So the desktop Apache configuration for WebDAV File Sharing
          is switched to non-SSL.

          When macOS Server is installed and promoted, and the Apache instance
          for Profile Manager is enabled, it is still possible to use wfsctl to
          manage WebDAV share points, e. g.:

              sudo wfsctl share /Volumes/Data/Share1


     3.   Any share points created in the UI on versions of macOS Server that
          predate High Sierra remain across updates, and those that were marked
          as WebDAV share points should continue to be available after the
          update to High Sierra or newer, whether or not macOS Server is
          installed.

     When the Apache instance for Profile Manager is disabled, or when macOS
     Server is removed or demoted, the port changes and SSL changes described
     above are reversed.

SEE ALSO
     httpd(8) httpd-wrapper(8)

