iwidgets::tabnotebook(1)         [incr Widgets]         iwidgets::tabnotebook(1)



________________________________________________________________________________

NAME
       iwidgets::tabnotebook - create and manipulate tabnotebook widgets

SYNOPSIS
       iwidgets::tabnotebook pathName? options?

INHERITANCE
       itk::Widget <- iwidgets::Tabnotebook

STANDARD OPTIONS

       background  disabledForeground  foreground  scrollCommand
       cursor      font                height      width

       See the "options" manual entry for details on the standard options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Name:           angle
       Class:          Angle
       Command-Line Switch:           -angle

              Specifes the angle of slope from the inner edge to the outer edge
              of the tab.  An angle of 0 specifies square tabs. Valid ranges are
              0 to 45 degrees inclusive. Default is 15 degrees. If tabPos is e
              or w, this option is ignored.

       Name:           auto
       Class:          Auto
       Command-Line Switch:           -auto

              Specifies whether to use the automatic packing/unpacking algorithm
              of the notebook. A value of true indicates that page frames will
              be unpacked and packed acoording to the algorithm described in the
              select command. A value of false leaves the current page packed
              and subsequent selects, next, or previous commands do not switch
              pages automatically. In either case the page's associated command
              (see the add command's description of the command option) is
              invoked. The value may have any of the forms accepted by the
              Tcl_GetBoolean, such as true, false, 0, 1, yes, or no.

       Name:           backdrop
       Class:          Backdrop
       Command-Line Switch:           -backdrop

              Specifies a background color to use when filling in the backdrop
              area behind the tabs.

       Name:           background
       Class:          Background
       Command-Line Switch:           -background

              Specifies a background color to use for displaying a page and its
              associated tab. This can be thought of as the selected tab
              background color, since the tab associated with the selected page
              is the selected tab.

       Name:           bevelAmount
       Class:          BevelAmount
       Command-Line Switch:           -bevelamount

              Specifes the size of tab corners. A value of 0 with angle set to 0
              results in square tabs. A bevelAmount of 4, means that the tab
              will be drawn with angled corners that cut in 4 pixels from the
              edge of the tab. The default is 0.

       Name:           borderWidth
       Class:          BorderWidth
       Command-Line Switch:           -borderwidth

              Specifies the width of shadowed border to place around the
              notebook area of the tabnotebook. The default value is 2.

       Name:           disabledForeground
       Class:          DisabledForeground
       Command-Line Switch:           -disabledforeground

              Specifies a foreground color to use for displaying a tab's label
              when its state is disabled.

       Name:           equalTabs
       Class:          EqualTabs
       Command-Line Switch:           -equaltabs

              Specifies whether to force tabs to be equal sized or not. A value
              of true means constrain tabs to be equal sized. A value of false
              allows each tab to size based on the text label size. The value
              may have any of the forms accepted by the Tcl_GetBoolean, such as
              true, false, 0, 1, yes, or no.

              For horizontally positioned tabs (tabpos is either s or n), true
              forces all tabs to be equal width (the width being equal to the
              longest label plus any padX specified). Horizontal tabs are always
              equal in height.

              For vertically positioned tabs (tabpos is either w or e), true
              forces all tabs to be equal height (the height being equal to the
              height of the label with the largest font). Vertically oriented
              tabs are always equal in width.

       Name:           foreground
       Class:          Foreground
       Command-Line Switch:           -foreground

              Specifies a foreground color to use for displaying a page and its
              associated tab label. This can be thought of as the selected tab
              background color, since the tab associated with the selected page
              is the selected tab.

       Name:           gap
       Class:          Gap
       Command-Line Switch:           -gap

              Specifies the amount of pixel space to place between each tab.
              Value may be any pixel offset value. In addition, a special
              keyword overlap can be used as the value to achieve a standard
              overlap of tabs. This value may have any of the forms acceptable
              to Tk_GetPixels.

       Name:           margin
       Class:          Margin
       Command-Line Switch:           -Bmargin

              Specifies the amount of space to place between the outside edge of
              the tabnotebook and the outside edge of its tabs. If tabPos is s,
              this is the amount of space between the bottom edge of the
              tabnotebook and the bottom edge of the set of tabs. If tabPos is
              n, this is the amount of space between the top edge of the
              tabnotebook and the top edge of the set of tabs. If tabPos is e,
              this is the amount of space between the right edge of the
              tabnotebook and the right edge of the set of tabs. If tabPos is w,
              this is the amount of space between the left edge of the
              tabnotebook and the left edge of the set of tabs. This value may
              have any of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.

       Name:           padX
       Class:          PadX
       Command-Line Switch:           -padx

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating how much extra space to
              request for a tab around its label in the X-direction. When
              computing how large a window it needs, the tab will add this
              amount to the width it would normally need The tab will end up
              with extra internal space to the left and right of its text label.
              This value may have any of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.

       Name:           padY
       Class:          PadY
       Command-Line Switch:           -pady

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating how much extra space to
              request for a tab around its label in the Y-direction. When
              computing how large a window it needs, the tab will add this
              amount to the height it would normally need The tab will end up
              with extra internal space to the top and bottom of its text label.
              This value may have any of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.

       Name:           raiseSelect
       Class:          RaiseSelect
       Command-Line Switch:           -raiseselect

              Specifes whether to slightly raise the selected tab from the rest
              of the tabs. The selected tab is drawn 2 pixels closer to the
              outside of the tabnotebook than the unselected tabs. A value of
              true says to raise selected tabs, a value of false turns this
              feature off. The default is false. The value may have any of the
              forms accepted by the Tcl_GetBoolean, such as true, false, 0, 1,
              yes, or no.

       Name:           start
       Class:          Start
       Command-Line Switch:           -start

              Specifies the amount of space to place between the left or top
              edge of the tabnotebook and the starting edge of its tabs. For
              horizontally positioned tabs, this is the amount of space between
              the left edge of the notebook and the left edge of the first tab.
              For vertically positioned tabs, this is the amount of space
              between the top of the notebook and the top of the first tab. This
              value may change if the user performs a MButton-2 scroll on the
              tabs. This value may have any of the forms acceptable to
              Tk_GetPixels.

       Name:           state
       Class:          State
       Command-Line Switch:           -state

              Sets the active state of the tabnotebook. Specifying normal allows
              all pages to be selectable. Specifying disabled disables the
              notebook causing all page tabs to be drawn in the
              disabledForeground color.

       Name:           tabBackground
       Class:          TabBackground
       Command-Line Switch:           -tabbackground

              Specifies a background color to use for displaying tab backgrounds
              when they are in their unselected state. This is the background
              associated with tabs on all pages other than the selected page.

       Name:           tabBorders
       Class:          TabBorders
       Command-Line Switch:           -tabborders

              Specifies whether to draw the borders of tabs that are not
              selected.  Specifying true (the default) draws these borders,
              specifying false draws only the border around the selected tab.
              The value may have any of the forms accepted by the
              Tcl_GetBoolean, such as true, false, 0, 1, yes, or no.

       Name:           tabForeground
       Class:          TabForeground
       Command-Line Switch:           -tabforeground

              Specifies a foreground color to use for displaying tab labels when
              they are in their unselected state. This is the foreground
              associated with tabs on all pages other than the selected page.

       Name:           tabPos
       Class:          TabPos
       Command-Line Switch:           -tabpos

              Specifies the location of the set of tabs in relation to the
              notebook area. Must be n, s, e, or w. Defaults to s.
________________________________________________________________________________

DESCRIPTION
       The iwidgets::tabnotebook command creates a new window (given by the
       pathName argument) and makes it into a tabnotebook widget. Additional
       options, described above may be specified on the command line or in the
       option database to configure aspects of the tabnotebook such as its
       colors, font, and text. The iwidgets::tabnotebook command returns its
       pathName argument. At the time this command is invoked, there must not
       exist a window named pathName, but pathName's parent must exist.

       A tabnotebook is a widget that contains a set of tabbed pages. It
       displays one page from the set as the selected page. A Tab displays the
       label for the page to which it is attached and serves as a page selector.
       When a page's tab is selected, the page's contents are displayed in the
       page area. The selected tab has a three-dimensional effect to make it
       appear to float above the other tabs. The tabs are displayed as a group
       along either the left, top, right, or bottom edge. When first created a
       tabnotebook has no pages. Pages may be added or deleted using widget
       commands described below.

       A special option may be provided to the tabnotebook. The -auto option
       specifies whether the tabnotebook will automatically handle the unpacking
       and packing of pages when pages are selected. A value of true signifies
       that the notebook will automatically manage it. This is the default
       value. A value of false signifies the notebook will not perform automatic
       switching of pages.

NOTEBOOK PAGES
       A tabnotebook's pages area contains a single child site frame. When a new
       page is created it is a child of this frame. The page's child site frame
       serves as a geometry container for applications to pack widgets into. It
       is this frame that is automatically unpacked or packed when the auto
       option is true. This creates the effect of one page being visible at a
       time. When a new page is selected, the previously selected page's child
       site frame is automatically unpacked from the tabnotebook's child site
       frame and the newly selected page's child site is packed into the
       tabnotebook's child site frame.

       However, sometimes it is desirable to handle page changes in a different
       manner. By specifying the auto option as false, child site packing can be
       disabled and done differently. For example, all widgets might be packed
       into the first page's child site frame. Then when a new page is selected,
       the application can reconfigure the widgets and give the appearance that
       the page was flipped.

       In both cases the command option for a page specifies a Tcl Command to
       execute when the page is selected. In the case of auto being true, it is
       between the unpacking of the previously selected page and the packing of
       the newly selected page.

       Notebook pages can also be controlled with scroll bars or other widgets
       that obey the scrollcommand protocol. By giving a scrollbar a -command to
       call the tabnotebook's select method, the tabnotebook can be controlled
       with a scrollbar.

       The notebook area is implemented with the notebook mega widget.

TABS
       Tabs appear along the edge of the notebook area. Tabs are drawn to appear
       attached to their associated page. When a tab is clicked on, the
       associated page is selected and the tab is drawn as raised above all
       other tabs and as a seamless part of its notebook page. Tabs can be
       controlled in their location along the edges, the angle tab sides are
       drawn with, gap between tabs, starting margin of tabs, internal padding
       around text labels in a tab, the font, and its label.

       The Tab area is implemented with the tabset mega widget.  See tabset(1).
       Tabs may be oriented along either the north, south, east, or west sides
       with the tabPos option. North and south tabs may appear as angled,
       square, or bevelled. West and east tabs may appear as square or bevelled.
       By changing tab gaps, tab angles, bevelling, orientations, colors, fonts,
       start locations, and margins; tabs may appear in a wide variety of
       styles. For example, it is possible to implement Microsoft-style tabs,
       Borland property tab styles, or Borland Delphi style tabs all with the
       same tabnotebook.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC METHODS
       The iwidgets::tabnotebook command creates a new Tcl command whose name is
       pathName. This command may be used to invoke various operations on the
       widget. It has the following general form:

              pathName option ?arg arg ...?

       option and the args determine the exact behavior of the command.

       Many of the widget commands for a notebook take as one argument an
       indicator of which page of the notebook to operate on. These indicators
       are called indexes and may be specified in any of the following forms:

       number Specifies the page numerically, where 0 corresponds to the first
              page in the notebook, 1 to the second, and so on.

       select Specifies the currently selected page's index. If no page is
              currently selected, the value -1 is returned.

       end    Specifes the last page in the tabnotebook's index. If the notebook
              is empty this will return -1.

       pattern
              If the index doesn't satisfy any of the above forms, then this
              form is used. Pattern is pattern-matched against the label of each
              page in the notebook, in order from the first to the last page,
              until a matching entry is found. The rules of Tcl_StringMatch are
              used.  The following commands are possible for tabnotebook
              widgets:

       pathName add ?option value option value ...?
              Add a new page at the end of the tabnotebook. A new child site
              frame is created. Returns the child site pathName. If additional
              arguments are present, they specify any of the following options:

              -angle value
                     Specifes the angle of slope from the inner edge to the
                     outer edge of the tab. An angle of 0 specifies square tabs.
                     Valid ranges are 0 to 45 degrees inclusive. Default is 15
                     degrees. If this option is specified as an empty string
                     (the default), then the angle option for the overall
                     tabnotebook is used. This is generally only set at the
                     tabnotebook level. Tabs normally will want to share the
                     same angle value.

              -background value
                     Specifies a background color to use for displaying tabs
                     when they are selected and for displaying the current page.
                     If this option is specified as an empty string (the
                     default), then the background option for the overall
                     tabnotebook is used.

              -bevelamount value
                     Specifes the size of tab corners. A value of 0 with angle
                     set to 0 results in square tabs. A bevelAmount of 4, means
                     that the tab will be drawn with angled corners that cut in
                     4 pixels from the edge of the tab.  The default is 0. This
                     is generally only set at the tabnotebook level.  Tabs
                     normally will want to share the same bevelAmount.

              -bitmap value
                     If label is a non-empty string, specifies a bitmap to
                     display in this page's tab. Bitmap may be of any of the
                     forms accepted by Tk_GetPixmap.

              -command value
                     Specifies a Tcl command to be executed when this page is
                     selected. This allows the programmer a hook to reconfigure
                     this page's widgets or any other page's widgets.

                     If the tabnotebook has the auto option set to true, when a
                     page is selected this command will be called immediately
                     after the previously selected page is unpacked and
                     immediately before this page is selected. The index value
                     select is valid during this Tcl command. `index select'
                     will return this page's page number.

                     If the auto option is set to false, when a page is selected
                     the unpack and pack calls are bypassed. This Tcl command is
                     still called.

              -disabledforeground value
                     Specifies a foreground color to use for displaying tab
                     labels when tabs are in their disable state. If this option
                     is specified as an empty string (the default), then the
                     disabledforeground option for the overall tabnotebook is
                     used.

              -font value
                     Specifies the font to use when drawing a text label on a
                     page tab. If this option is specified as an empty string
                     then the font option for the overall tabnotebook is used..

              -foreground value
                     Specifies a foreground color to use for displaying tab
                     labels when they are selected. If this option is specified
                     as an empty string (the default), then the foreground
                     option for the overall tabnotebook is used.

              -label value
                     Specifies a string to display as an identifying label for a
                     notebook page. This label serves as an additional
                     identifier used to reference the page. This label may be
                     used for the index value in widget commands.

              -tabbackground value
                     Specifies a background color to use for displaying a tab
                     when it is not elected. If this option is specified as an
                     empty string (the default), then the tabBackground option
                     for the overall tabnotebook is used.

              -tabforeground value
                     Specifies a foreground color to use for displaying the
                     tab's text label when it is not selected. If this option is
                     specified as an empty string (the default), then the
                     tabForeground option for the overall tabnotebook is used.

              -padx value
                     Specifies a non-negative value indicating how much extra
                     space to request for a tab around its label in the X-
                     direction. When computing how large a window it needs, the
                     tab will add this amount to the width it would normally
                     need The tab will end up with extra internal space to the
                     left and right of its text label. This value may have any
                     of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels. If this option is
                     specified as an empty string (the default), then the padX
                     option for the overall tabnotebook is used

              -pady value
                     Specifies a non-negative value indicating how much extra
                     space to request for a tab around its label in the Y-
                     direction. When computing how large a window it needs, the
                     tab will add this amount to the height it would normally
                     need The tab will end up with extra internal space to the
                     top and bottom of its text label. This value may have any
                     of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels. If this option is
                     specified as an empty string (the default), then the padY
                     option for the overall tabnotebook is used

              -state value
                     Specifies one of two states for the page: normal or
                     disabled. In normal state unselected tabs are displayed
                     using the tabforeground and tabbackground option from the
                     tabnotebook or the page. Selected tabs and pages are
                     displayed using the foreground and background option from
                     the tabnotebook or the page. The disabled state means that
                     the page and its tab is insensitive: it doesn't respond to
                     mouse button presses or releases. In this state the entry
                     is displayed according to its disabledForeground option for
                     the tabnotebook and the background/tabbackground option
                     from the page or the tabnotebook.

       pathName childSite ?index?
              If passed no arguments, returns a list of pathNames for all the
              pages in the tabnotebook. If the tab notebook is empty, an empty
              list is returned

              If index is passed, it returns the pathName for the page's child
              site frame specified by index. Widgets that are created with this
              pathName will be displayed when the associated page is selected.
              If index is not a valid index, an empty string is returned.

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query or modify the configuration options of the widget. If no
              option is specified, returns a list describing all of the
              available options for pathName (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for
              information on the format of this list). If option is specified
              with no value, then the command returns a list describing the one
              named option (this list will be identical to the corresponding
              sublist of the value returned if no option is specified). If one
              or more option-value pairs are specified, then the command
              modifies the given widget option(s) to have the given value(s); in
              this case the command returns an empty string. Option may have any
              of the values accepted by the iwidgets::tabnotebook command.

       pathName delete index1 ?index2?
              Delete all of the pages between index1 and index2 inclusive.  If
              index2 is omitted then it defaults to index1. Returns an empty
              string.

       pathName index index
              Returns the numerical index corresponding to index.

       pathName insert index ?option value option value ...?
              Insert a new page in the tabnotebook before the page specified by
              index. A new child site frame is created. The additional arguments
              are the same as for the add command. Returns the child site
              pathName.

       pathName next
              Advances the selected page to the next page (order is determined
              by insertion order). If the currently selected page is the last
              page in the notebook, the selection wraps around to the first page
              in the notebook. It behaves as if the user selected the new page.

              For notebooks with auto set to true the current page's child site
              is unpacked from the notebook's child site frame. Then the next
              page's child site is packed into the notebook's child site frame.
              The Tcl command given with the command option will be invoked
              between these two operations.

              For notebooks with auto set to false the Tcl command given with
              the command option will be invoked.

       pathName pageconfigure index ?option? ?value option value ...?
              This command is similar to the configure command, except that it
              applies to the options for an individual page, whereas configure
              applies to the options for the tabnotebook as a whole. Options may
              have any of the values accepted by the add widget command. If
              options are specified, options are modified as indicated in the
              command and the command returns an empty string. If no options are
              specified, returns a list describing the current options for page
              index (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information on the format of this
              list).

       pathName prev
              Moves the selected page to the previous page (order is determined
              by insertion order). If the currently selected page is the first
              page in the notebook, the selection wraps around to the last page
              in the notebook. It behaves as if the user selected the new page.

              For notebooks with auto set to true the current page's child site
              is unpacked from the notebook's child site frame. Then the
              previous page's child site is packed into the notebook's child
              site frame.  The Tcl command given with the command option will be
              invoked between these two operations.

              For notebooks with auto set to false the Tcl command given with
              the command option will be invoked.

       pathName select index
              Selects the page specified by index as the currently selected
              page.  It behaves as if the user selected the new page.

              For notebooks with auto set to true the current page's child site
              is unpacked from the notebook's child site frame. Then the index
              page's child site is packed into the notebook's child site frame.
              The Tcl command given with the command option will be invoked
              between these two operations.

              For notebooks with auto set to false the Tcl command given with
              the command option will be invoked.

       pathName view
              Returns the currently selected page. This command is for
              compatibility with the scrollbar widget.

       pathName view index
              Selects the page specified by index as the currently selected
              page.  This command is for compatibility with the scrollbar
              widget.

       pathName view moveto fraction
              Uses the fraction value to determine the corresponding page to
              move to.  This command is for compatibility with the scrollbar
              widget.

       pathName view scroll num what
              Uses the num value to determine how many pages to move forward or
              backward (num can be negative or positive). The what argument is
              ignored. This command is for compatibility with the scrollbar
              widget.

COMPONENTS
       Generally all behavior of the internal components, tabset and notebook
       are controlled via the pageconfigure method.  The following section
       documents these two components.

       Name:   tabset
       Class:  Tabset

              This is the tabset component. It implements the tabs that are
              associated with the notebook component.

              See the "Tabset" widget manual entry for details on the tabset
              component item.

       Name:   notebook
       Class:  Notebook

              This is the notebook component. It implements the notebook that
              contains the pages of the tabnotebook.

              See the "Notebook" widget manual entry for details on the notebook
              component item.

EXAMPLE
       Following is an example that creates a tabnotebook with two pages.


              package require Iwidgets 4.0
              # Create the tabnotebook widget and pack it.
                iwidgets::tabnotebook .tn -width 100 -height 100
                pack .tn \
                      -anchor nw \
                      -fill both \
                      -expand yes \
                      -side left \
                      -padx 10 \
                      -pady 10

              # Add two pages to the tabnotebook,
              # labelled "Page One" and "Page Two"
                .tn add -label "Page One"
                .tn add -label "Page Two"

              # Get the child site frames of these two pages.
                set page1CS [.tn childsite 0]
                set page2CS [.tn childsite "Page Two"]

              # Create buttons on each page of the tabnotebook.
                button $page1CS.b -text "Button One"
                pack $page1CS.b
                button $page2CS.b -text "Button Two"
                pack $page2CS.b

              # Select the first page of the tabnotebook.
                .tn select 0

AUTHOR
       Bill W. Scott

KEYWORDS
       tab tabset notebook tabnotebook page



